https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/transmission/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/transmission/index.html    
                Description: Scientists think people are initially infected with Ebola virus through contact with an infected animal, such as a fruit bat or nonhuman primate. This is called a spillover event. After that, the virus spreads from person to person, potentially affecting a large number of people.    
                Keywords: Ebola,  Ebola outbreak,  transmission,  persistence of virus,  pets,  livestock,  body fluids, Viral Hemorrhagic Fevers VHF, Ebola Virus Disease    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Ebola (Ebola Virus Disease)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Transmission

Minus

Related Pages

Scientists think people are initially infected with Ebola virus through
contact with an infected animal, such as a fruit bat or nonhuman primate. This
is called a spillover event. After that, the virus spreads from person to
person, potentially affecting a large number of people.

The virus spreads through direct contact (such as through broken skin or
mucous membranes in the eyes, nose, or mouth) with:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Blood or body fluids (urine, saliva, sweat, feces, vomit, breast milk, and semen) of a person who is sick with or has died from Ebola virus disease (EVD).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Objects (such as clothes, bedding, needles, and medical equipment) contaminated with body fluids from a person who is sick with or has died from EVD.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Infected fruit bats or nonhuman primates (such as apes and monkeys).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Semen from a man who recovered from EVD (through oral, vaginal, or anal sex). The virus can remain in certain body fluids (including semen) of a patient who has recovered from EVD, even if they no longer have symptoms of severe illness. There is no evidence that Ebola can be spread through sex or other contact with vaginal fluids from a woman who has had Ebola.

When people become infected with Ebola, they do not start developing signs or
symptoms right away. This period between exposure to an illness and having
symptoms is known as the incubation period. **A person can only spread Ebola
to other people after they develop signs and symptoms of Ebola.**

Additionally, Ebola virus is not known to be transmitted through food.
However, in certain parts of the world, Ebola virus may spread through the
handling and consumption of wild animal meat or hunted wild animals infected
with Ebola. There is no evidence that mosquitoes or other insects can transmit
Ebola virus.

## Risk

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Health workers who do not use proper infection control while caring for Ebola patients, and family and friends in close contact with Ebola patients, are at the highest risk of getting sick. Ebola can spread when people come into contact with infected blood or body fluids.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ebola poses little risk to travelers or the general public who have not cared for or been in close contact (within 3 feet or 1 meter) with someone sick with Ebola.

## Persistence of the virus

The virus can remain in areas of the body that are immunologically privileged
sites after acute infection. These are sites where viruses and pathogens, like
the Ebola virus, are shielded from the survivor's immune system, even after
being cleared elsewhere in the body. These areas include the testes, interior
of the eyes, placenta, and central nervous system, particularly the
cerebrospinal fluid. Whether the virus is present in these body parts and for
how long varies by survivor. Scientists are now studying how long the virus
stays in these body fluids among Ebola survivors.

During an Ebola outbreak, the virus can spread quickly within healthcare
settings (such as clinics or hospitals). Clinicians and other healthcare
personnel providing care should use dedicated, preferably disposable, medical
equipment. Proper cleaning and disposal of instruments such as needles and
syringes are important. If instruments are not disposable, they must be
sterilized before using again.

Ebola virus can survive on dry surfaces, like doorknobs and countertops for
several hours; in body fluids like blood, the virus can survive up to several
days at room temperature. Cleaning and disinfection should be performed using
a hospital-grade disinfectant.

In the United States, hospital-grade disinfectant refers to U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA)-registered hospital disinfectant pdf icon[PDF -
278KB]external icon with a label claim for a non-enveloped virus.

Related Resources

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Signs and Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment

Page last reviewed: November 5, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of High-
Consequence Pathogens and Pathology (DHCPP), Viral Special Pathogens Branch
(VSPB)

home Ebola (Ebola Virus Disease)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What is Ebola Virus Disease?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * History of Ebola Virus Diseaseplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Years of Ebola Virus Disease Outbreaks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ebola Virus Disease Distribution Map: Cases of Ebola Virus Disease in Africa Since 1976
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 2014-2016 Ebola Outbreak in West Africa plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * The Cost of the Ebola Epidemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2014-2016 Ebola Outbreak Distribution in West Africa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Case Counts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2014 Ebola Outbreak in West Africa Epidemic Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Signs and Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prevention and Vaccineplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Handwashing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Survivors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Outbreaksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 2018 Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congoplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Whatâs New
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * What CDC is Doing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ebola By The Numbers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo Ebola Outbreak Map
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ebola Communication and Awareness Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 2018 Democratic Republic of Congo, Bikoroplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Map of Ebola-Affected Health Zones in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 2017 Democratic Republic of the Congo, Bas UÃ©lÃ© District
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 2014 Ebola Outbreak in Democratic Republic of the Congo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Outbreak Preparedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Outbreak Response Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Itâs not over until itâs over
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Long flights, long days mark vaccine campaign
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Roads to Uganda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * How community feedback shapes the Ebola response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ebola outbreak becomes a class act for EIS officers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * In the shadow of the volcano
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Congo-born CDC photographer rooting for Ebola responders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Fighting Ebola on familiar ground
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Thereâs no silver bullet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Strength In Numbers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Responding to a case of Ebola in Goma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Fighting Ebola: Every day is a Monday
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Protecting the Health of Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Collaborating across Time Zones
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Being Creative in Goma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Crunching the Numbers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Supporting the Laboratory in Uganda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Supporting the Ministry of Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Protecting Ugandaâs Border
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Watching DRCâs Border
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * For Cliniciansplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ebola Virus Disease for Cliniciansplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Infection Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Acute Hemodialysis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pregnant Women
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Handling Human Remains
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Neonatal Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Evaluating Patientsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Case Definition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Think Ebola
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * FAQs: Screening for Ebola Virus Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Discharging Persons Under Investigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Evaluating Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Management of Survivors of Ebola Virus Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Messages for the Care of Survivors of Ebola
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cleaning and Disinfectingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hospital Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Waste Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Survivability of Ebola Virus in Medical Waste
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Handling Ebola-Associated Waste
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emergency Services plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Emergency Department Guidance 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Emergency Department Preparedness Training 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * EMS Systems and 9-1-1 Answering Points 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Air Medical Transport SOP 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Transport of Pediatric Patients 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Interfacility Transport Guidance plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Patient Handoff SOP 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Air-to-Ground Patient Handoff SOP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ambulance Decontamination 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Outpatient Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Non US Healthcare Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preventing Injury from Injections and Sharps in Non-U.S. General Healthcare Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hand Hygiene in Non-U.S. General Healthcare Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Rationale and Considerations for Chlorine Use in Infection Control for Non- U.S. General Healthcare Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory Testingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Specimen Collection, Transport, and Submission 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Packing and Shipping Specimens 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Managing and Testing Routine Clinical Specimens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Non-CDC Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * For Public Health Plannersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Top 10 Ebola Response Planning Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hospital Preparednessplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preparing Frontline Healthcare Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preparing Ebola Assessment Hospitals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preparing Ebola Treatment Centers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidance for Confirmed Ebola Patients or Clinically Unstable PUIs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidance for Clinically Stable PUIs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ebola PPE Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * PPE Supply Considerations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * PPE Calculator
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cleaning and Decontaminationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidance for the U.S. Residence Decontamination for Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) and Removal of Contaminated Waste
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidance for Handling Untreated Sewage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * FAQs: Interim Guidance for Handling Untreated Sewage from Suspected or Confirmed Individuals with Ebola in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidance for Cleaning, Disinfection, and Waste Disposal in Commercial Passenger Aircraft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Notes on the Interim U.S. Guidance for Monitoring and Movement of Persons with Potential Ebola Virus Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communication Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Audio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographics & Illustrations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Factsheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Virus Ecology Graphic

![      illustration of colorful DNA strand behind the text - CDC uses next-
generation sequencing to identify hemorrhagic fever viruses in
bats](/amd/images/amd-badges/amd-initiative-badge-filovirus.jpg)

![MMWR Ebola Reports](/vhf/ebola/images/mmwr-badge.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

