https://www.cdc.gov/std/products/infographics.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/std/products/infographics.htm    
                Description: STD infographics    
                Keywords: CDC,  STD,  STI,  VD,  data,  statistics,  contributors,  graphs,  maps,  figures,  chlamydia,  gonorrhea,  syphilis,  adolescents,  young adults,  United States,  US, Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# STD Prevention Infographics

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

![National Infographic](/std/stats18/images/national-2018-600.png)

The State of STDs in the United States: This *customizable* infographic
highlights statistics for chlamydia, gonorrhea, and syphilis, as well as the
populations most affected by these STDs, consequences when left untreated, and
ways to prevent them.

Portions of the infographic are also available to share over social media.

### Expedited Partner Therapy (EPT): An Important STD Prevention Tool

![If you’ve been diagnosed with an STD, you may be able to get treatment for
your partner, too. For an accessible version go to:
https://www.cdc.gov/std/products/infographics/images/ept-
infographic-508_2016.10.06.pdf](/std/products/infographics/images/EPT-
Infographic2016-800.jpg)

Download as a PDFpdf icon, or  
copy the code below to share as an image.

Copy code to embed![If you’ve been diagnosed with an STD, you may be able to
get treatment for your partner, too.

For an accessible version go to:
https://www.cdc.gov/std/products/infographics/images/ept-
infographic-508_2016.10.06.pdf](https://www.cdc.gov/std/products/infographics/images/ept-
infographic2016-800.jpg)  

### Antibiotic-Resistant Gonorrhea: It's Time to Take Action

![](/std/products/infographics/images/GISP-Graphic-1_2016.6.30.jpg)

Download the PDF versionpdf icon, or

use the code below to share this image.

Copy code to embed![Gonorrhea is developing a resistance to the antibiotics we
use to treat it. With only one recommended treatment option remaining, it's
time to take action. Learn more at:
www.cdc.gov/std/gonorrhea/arg](www.cdc.gov/std/products/infographics/images/GISP-
Graphic-1_2016.6.30.jpg)  

### Antibiotic-Resistant Gonorrhea: Health Care Providers

![](/std/products/infographics/images/GISP-Graphic-2_2016.6.30.jpg)

Download the PDF versionpdf icon, or

use the code below to share this image.

Copy code to embed![Gonorrhea is developing a resistance to the antibiotics we
use to treat it. We have only one recommended treatment option left. Help
protect it. Learn more at:
www.cdc.gov/std/gonorrhea/arg](www.cdc.gov/std/products/infographics/images/GISP-
Graphic-2_2016.6.30.jpg)  

### Antibiotic-Resistant Gonorrhea: Working Together

![](/std/products/infographics/images/GISP-Graphic-3_2016.6.30.jpg)

Download the PDF versionpdf icon, or

use the code below to share this image.

Copy code to embed![Gonorrhea is developing a resistance to the antibiotics we
use to treat it. The public health and medical communities must work together
to stop antibiotic-resistant gonorrhea. Learn more at:
www.cdc.gov/std/gonorrhea/arg](www.cdc.gov/std/products/infographics/images/GISP-
Graphic-3_2016.6.30.jpg)  

### The Lowdown on How to Prevent STDs Infographic

![](/std/prevention/lowdown/the_lowdown_infographic_thumb.png)

Click here to view "The Lowdown on How to Prevent STDs" interactive web
infographic.  
Click here to view the "text-only" version of the infographic.  
Click herepdf icon to download the 30″ x 20″ poster.  


* * *

### The Consequences of STIs are Particularly Severe for Young Women -
1214×591

![](/std/products/infographics/images/Consequences-of-STIs.jpg)

Use the code below to share this image.

Copy code to embed![The consequences of STIs are particularly severe for young
women. In fact, undiagnosed STIs cause 24,000 women to become infertile each
year.](https://www.cdc.gov/std/products/infographics/images/Consequences-of-
STIs.jpg)  

  

* * *

### Young people account for a substantial proportion of new STIs - 1240×290

![](/std/products/infographics/images/Proportion-of-STIsAmongYoungPeople.jpg)



Use the code below to share this image.

Copy code to embed![Young people account for a substantial proportion of new
STIs. Americans ages 15 to 24 account for 70% of the 820,000 gonorrhea
infections among all ages; 63% of the 2.9 million chlamydia infections among
all ages; 49% of the 14.1 million HPV infections among all ages; 45% of the
776,000 genital herpes infections among all ages; and 20% of the 55,400
syphilis infections among all ages. Finally, Americans ages 13 to 24 account
for 26% of the 47,500 HIV infections among all
ages.](https://www.cdc.gov/std/products/infographics/images/Proportion-of-
STIsAmongYoungPeople.jpg)  



* * *

### Unique Factors Place Youth at Risk for STIs - 2298×629

![](/std/products/infographics/images/YouthRiskFactors-forSTIs.jpg)



Use the code below to share this image.

Copy code to embed![A range of unique factors place youth at risk for
infection. Many young women don’t receive the chlamydia screening CDC
recommends. Many youth are reluctant to disclose risk behaviors to doctors.
Young women’s bodies are biologically more susceptible to sexually transmitted
infections. Youth often lack insurance or transportation needed to access
prevention services. And many young people have multiple partners which
increases STI
risk.](https://www.cdc.gov/std/products/infographics/images/YouthRiskFactors-
forSTIs.jpg)  



* * *

### Young People Can Protect Themselves from STIs - 2365×562



![](/std/products/infographics/images/YoungPeople-fromSTIs.jpg)



Use the code below to share this image.

Copy code to embed![To protect themselves from STIs, young people should get
tested, reduce their risk behaviors, and get vaccinated against
HPV.](https://www.cdc.gov/std/products/infographics/images/YoungPeople-
fromSTIs.jpg)  



* * *

### Estimated New STIs (Ages 15-24 and Ages 25+) - 760×580

![](/std/images/infographics/stiPaper-Incidence.gif)





Use the code below to share this image.

Copy code to embed![Incidence: This is a bar chart showing the estimated
number of new sexually transmitted infections in the United States in 2008.
There were a total of 19,738,800 new infections: 19,000 hepatitis B
infections; 41,400 HIV infections; 55,400 syphilis infections; 776,000 HSV-2
infections; 820,000 gonorrhea infections; 1,090,000 trichomoniasis infections;
2,860,000 chlamydia infections; and 14,100,000 HPV infections. Young people
\(aged 15 to 24\) accounted for half of all new sexually transmitted
infections: 8% of hepatitis B infections, 20% of syphilis infections; 45% of
HSV-2 infections; 70% of gonorrhea infections; 13% of trichomoniasis
infections; 63% of chlamydia infections; and 49% of HPV
infections.](https://www.cdc.gov/std/images/infographics/stipaper-
incidence.gif)  



* * *

### Estimated New and Existing STIs with Gender Totals - 760×558

![](/std/images/infographics/stiPaper-Prevalence.gif)





Use the code below to share this image.

Copy code to embed![Prevalence: This is a bar chart showing the estimated
numbers of new and existing \(total\) sexually transmitted infections in the
United States 2008. There were a total of 110,197,000 infections: 117,000
syphilis infections; 270,000 gonorrhea infections; 422,000 hepatitis B
infections; 908,000 HIV infections; 1,570,000 chlamydia infections; 3,710,000
trichomoniasis infections; 24,100,000 HSV-2 infections; and 79,100,000 HPV
infections. 50,627,400 infections occurred in men and 59,569,500 occurred in
women. ](https://www.cdc.gov/std/images/infographics/stipaper-prevalence.gif)  

  

* * *

### STI Estimates and Medical Costs - 300×409

![](/std/images/infographics/stiPaper-bar.gif)



Use the code below to share this image.

Copy code to embed![This graphic shows CDC’s estimates of sexually transmitted
infections in the United States in 2008. CDC estimates that there were 20
million new sexually transmitted infections and 110 million total sexually
transmitted infections, accounting for $16 billion in medical
costs.](https://www.cdc.gov/std/images/infographics/stipaper-bar.gif)  

  

* * *

Page last reviewed: March 16, 2020

Content source: Division of STD Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS,
Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention

home Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diseases & Related Conditionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Chlamydia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gonorrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Herpes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * HIV/AIDS & STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Human Papillomavirus (HPV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STDs & Infertility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STDs during Pregnancyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Detailed Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment and Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Risk and Oral Sex
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Trichomoniasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other STDsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Life Stages and Populationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Adolescents and Young Adultsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Adolescents and Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Adolescents and STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gay, Bisexual and Other MSMplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gay Men & STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Just Diagnosed?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Which STD Tests Should I Get?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Lowdown Infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Program Management & Evaluation Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Effective Interventions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gap Assessment Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Outbreak Response Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Congenital Syphilis HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Disseminated Gonococcal Infection HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gonorrhea with Reduced SusceptibilityÂ HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * LGV HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Practical Use of Program Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Program Operations Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * S.P.A.C.E. Monkey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Data Management & Information Technologyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Generic Information Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * BPMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Partner Servicesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Internet Partner Services Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * VCAmon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CS Webinar Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Projects & Initiativesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD PCHDplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * National Disease Intervention Specialist (DIS) Recognition Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance Project (GISP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Health Equityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Community Approaches to Reducing STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Indian Health Service Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * SDMB Contacts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tools & Materialsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Brochuresplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * The Facts Brochures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * ä¸­æ (Chinese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * KreyÃ²l (Haitian Creole)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ð ÑÑÑÐºÐ¸Ð¹ (Russian)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tiáº½ng ViÃªt (Vietnamese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prevention Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Provider Pocket Guides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicated Content
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Videos and Podcastsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Letâs Talk About Sexual Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Safe in the City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Webinars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Widgets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Trainingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Prevention Coursesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Passport to Partner Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Advanced STD Intervention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Visual Case Analysis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Principles of STD Supervision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STD Intervention for Supervisors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Essentials of STD Supervision I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tailored Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Continuing Education Online
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * SASSI â SAS Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD 101 in a Boxplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Script for _Sex in the City_ Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Clinical Slidesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STD Clinical Slides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Picture Cardsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STD Picture Cards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment and Screeningplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Drug Noticesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gemifloxacin 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Procaine Penicillin G Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Erythromycin (0.5%) Ophthalmic Ointment Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Expedited Partner Therapyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gonorrhea Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Legal Status of EPT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Legal/Policy Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prenatal Syphilis Screening Laws
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD QCS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Additional Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About the Division of STD Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fundingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Disease Intervention Training Centers (DITC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * National Network of STD Clinical Prevention Training Centers (NNPTC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * SSuN: Program and other NOFO Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Funding Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Strategic Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

