https://www.cdc.gov/std/program/cs-webinar-qa.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/std/program/cs-webinar-qa.htm    
                Description: None    
                Keywords: STD, CDC    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Sexually Transmitted Diseases

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# CS Webinar Questions

Minus

Related Pages

#### Answers to Questions from "The Revised Congenital Syphilis Report Form -
What's New, Why, and How to Use It"



**1\. Can polymerase chain reaction (PCR) be used to confirm a case of
congenital syphilis?**

No, the surveillance case definition for congenital syphilis (revised
September 1996) does not currently include PCR evidence.

**2\. Should the CSF VDRL be considered diagnostic of CS?**

A reactive CSF VDRL in an infant/child supports the diagnosis of CS, but does
not by itself establish the diagnosis of CS. A negative CSF FTA-ABS result
makes the diagnosis of neurosyphilis highly unlikely, but a reactive CSF FTA-
ABS does not indicate neurosyphilis (please see STD Treatment Guidelines).

**3\. What is an "equivocal" test for HIV?**

Infection with HIV is diagnosed in two steps.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. A sensitive screening test detects antibodies to HIV, but can yield false-positive results.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2. A confirmatory test must then be performed. A Western blot can be used to confirm a positive screening test. The Western blot yields a pattern of bands; bands that match a specific standard confirm infection with HIV. If a Western blot has some, but not enough, bands that match that standard, the result can be read as "equivocal" -- neither confirming HIV infection, nor ruling out infection. In such cases, retesting is usually performed, because the patient might have early HIV infection and might be in the process of seroconverting.

The DIS should make every effort to determine the ultimate answer (positive or
negative), as effective methods to prevent transmission of HIV from mother-to-
child exists.

**4\. Can the treponemal IgM immunoblot be used to rule out infection with
syphilis? If the treponemal IgM is negative, is it safe not to treat the
infant?**

No, a negative treponemal IgM immunoblot does not rule out infection with
syphilis. In asymptomatic infants/children at risk for CS, a positive result
only occurs in 4-22% of cases. All available reports on treponemal IgM
immunoblots warn against using a negative IgM immunoblot to rule out CS. A
negative result does not mean the patient can forego treatment. A positive
treponemal IgM immunoblot supports the diagnosis of CS but more evidence is
required before a diagnosis can be made.

**5\. Will a hospital or outside laboratory know to do a darkfield microscopy
test if the physician doesn 't order the test?**

No, the technique uses a wet preparation on a microscope slide, so the
treponemes do not survive long (e.g., not long enough for transport to a
hospital or outside laboratory). The physician must know what a darkfield
microscopy test is, obtain the appropriate specimen, and have the personnel
(e.g., trained fluorescent microscopist) and equipment immediately on hand to
perform the test.

**6\. One of the scenarios in the webinar stated an abnormal CSF protein after
30 days of age was >30 mg/dl, yet the footnote on the infant/child algorithm
states "40 mg/dl'. Which value is it?**

A CSF protein of 40 mg/dl  is the correct threshold value for infant/child
more than 30 days old. This typographical error has been corrected in the
slide set for this webinar available at
https://www.cdc.gov/std/program/partners.htm.

Thank you to the participant who noted this typographical error!

**7\. Can a patient have congenital syphilis if the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)
Venereal Disease Research Laboratory (VDRL) test is negative?**

Absolutely, please refer to the surveillance case definition for congenital
syphilis in the appendices of the instructions to the revised CS report form
and STD Surveillance Report.

**8\. If a mother has both reactive treponemal and non-treponemal tests,
should she be reported as a case of syphilis?**

More data are needed to answer this question. If the mother had a chancre or
signs of secondary syphilis, then she should be reported as a case of
syphilis. If the mother is asymptomatic, whether or not she should be reported
as a case depends upon her history of diagnosis and treatment. Please see the
surveillance case definitions for syphilis.

**9\. If a mother had serologies performed around, but not at, delivery, how
should that data be reported?**

If maternal serologies were performed within a week of delivery, please mark
"at delivery" for Box 14c.

**10\. If a mother has syphilis, is inadequately treated, and has a stillbirth
with defects unrelated to syphilis, should the case be reported as "syphilitic
stillbirth"?**

The mother had inadequately treated syphilis. If the stillbirth was >500 g or
>20 weeks' gestation, the case meets the case definition of "syphilitic
stillbirth" and should be reported.

**11\. For late latent syphilis, what is "adequate" treatment for the
mother?**

If treatment for late latent syphilis _begins_ 30 or more days prior to
delivery, then treatment can be completed less than 30 days before delivery.
If treatment is _not_ completed before delivery, the mother would be
inadequately treated.

**12\. If the mother 's (or infant's) medical records are not available, will
a care provider's oral report suffice?**

No, any data reported on the revised CS report form must come from documents
containing that data. Public health authorities have the authority to access
medical records for public health reasons.

**13\. What defines an area of "high morbidity" when determining if screening
pregnant women at 28-32 weeks and at delivery should be performed?**

There is no one solid threshold. Local health jurisdictions should be aware of
their baseline prevalence of syphilis (including congenital syphilis), and if
they detect an increase in activity, should act accordingly. Analyses have
shown cost effectiveness of screening for CS when prevalence of early syphilis
(primary, secondary, and early latent syphilis) was as low as 5 per 100,000
females.

**14\. Where should IV penicillin therapy be recorded?**

Use box (22.) and specify "other."

**15\. How does the form capture prenatal care through the mother 's pregnancy
-- for example, if a mother only receives care during first trimester, then at
delivery?**

The quality of care a mother receives is captured through multiple data
elements (including trimester of 1st prenatal visit, date of first non-
treponemal test during pregnancy, date of treatment, and what that treatment
was).

**16\. Is capturing the onset of stigmata (e.g., when a patient began to show
symptoms) important?**

No, the usefulness of that data hasn't been demonstrated, and there is no
place on the form to report it. Reporting what signs are present in the
infant/child is more important.

**17\. When will the revised CS report form be ready for use?**

The revised CS report form is already available (in PDF format) at
https://www.cdc.gov/std/program/partners.htm.

**18\. Is the revised CS report form in triplicate like the old form?**

The hard (paper) copy version of the revised CS report form will be in
triplicate and available beginning in June 2013. The triplicate report form
can be obtained by contacting Ms. Darlene Davis at 404-639-1838 or
dwd1@cdc.gov.

**19\. Will there be an effort to make the PDF form fillable?**

There has been discussion on making the revised CS report form available in
fillable PDF format. However, no decision has been made. For those reporting
jurisdictions that report via hard copy, the triplicate forms are required.

**20\. Are slides from the webinar available for download?**

Yes: both the recording of the webinar and the slide set itself are available
at https://www.cdc.gov/std/program/partners.htm.

**21\. Into what version of STD*MIS is the new report form being entered? How
will entering data from the revised CS report form into STD*MIS change?**

The current STD*MIS versions, 4.1c and 5.1, are being updated to accommodate
the new data elements (the updated versions being named 4.2 and 5.2,
respectively). The new report  can be entered into STD*MIS 4.2 and 5.2.

**22\. Will the revised CS report form be part of the STD data program
PRISM?**

PRISM, as well as other reporting systems, will be able to use the updated
NETSS Implementation Plan as a guide in making the necessary modifications to
local systems.  The updated NETSS Implementation Plan is planned to be
available in July 2013.

**23\. If the revised CS report form is available, how should cases that have
already been reported this year on the old form be handled?**

Cases that have already been reported should remain in the format in which
they were reported (e.g., old CS report form). Project areas that currently
report CS by paper form can immediately begin use of the revised CS report
form. Triplicate forms should be requested from Ms. Darlene Davis at
404-639-1838 or dwd1@cdc.gov.  Project areas that currently report
electronically should begin reporting the new data elements contained in the
revised CS report form as soon as they have the necessary system updates.

**24\. Do the fields in the revised CS report form correspond to fields in
STD*MIS 4.1c?**

Some fields in the revised CS report form do not correspond to fields in
STD*MIS 4.1c. However, STD*MIS 4.1c is being updated to accommodate the new
data elements (the updated version will be called "STD*MIS 4.2").  Data
elements for the revised CS report form will be enterable in STD*MIS 4.2,
which will be released soon.

**25\. Are continuing education (CEU) credits available for this webinar?**

Sorry, no CEU credits are available for this webinar.



**For further information, please contact:**  
John Su: 404-639-3526; ezu2@cdc.gov  
Darlene Davis: 404-639-1838; dwd1@cdc.gov

Page last reviewed: June 27, 2013

Content source: Division of STD Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS,
Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention

home Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diseases & Related Conditionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Chlamydia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gonorrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Herpes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * HIV/AIDS & STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Human Papillomavirus (HPV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STDs & Infertility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STDs during Pregnancyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Detailed Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment and Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Risk and Oral Sex
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Trichomoniasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other STDsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Life Stages and Populationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Adolescents and Young Adultsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Adolescents and Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Adolescents and STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gay, Bisexual and Other MSMplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gay Men & STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Just Diagnosed?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Which STD Tests Should I Get?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Lowdown Infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Program Management & Evaluation Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Effective Interventions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gap Assessment Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Outbreak Response Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Congenital Syphilis HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Disseminated Gonococcal Infection HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gonorrhea with Reduced SusceptibilityÂ HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * LGV HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Practical Use of Program Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Program Operations Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * S.P.A.C.E. Monkey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Data Management & Information Technologyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Generic Information Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * BPMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Partner Servicesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Internet Partner Services Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * VCAmon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CS Webinar Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Projects & Initiativesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD PCHDplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * National Disease Intervention Specialist (DIS) Recognition Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance Project (GISP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Health Equityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Community Approaches to Reducing STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Indian Health Service Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * SDMB Contacts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tools & Materialsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Brochuresplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * The Facts Brochures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * ä¸­æ (Chinese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * KreyÃ²l (Haitian Creole)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ð ÑÑÑÐºÐ¸Ð¹ (Russian)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tiáº½ng ViÃªt (Vietnamese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prevention Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Provider Pocket Guides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicated Content
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Videos and Podcastsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Letâs Talk About Sexual Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Safe in the City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Webinars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Widgets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Trainingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Prevention Coursesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Passport to Partner Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Advanced STD Intervention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Visual Case Analysis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Principles of STD Supervision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STD Intervention for Supervisors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Essentials of STD Supervision I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tailored Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Continuing Education Online
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * SASSI â SAS Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD 101 in a Boxplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Script for _Sex in the City_ Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Clinical Slidesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STD Clinical Slides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Picture Cardsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STD Picture Cards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment and Screeningplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Drug Noticesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gemifloxacin 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Procaine Penicillin G Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Erythromycin (0.5%) Ophthalmic Ointment Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Expedited Partner Therapyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gonorrhea Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Legal Status of EPT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Legal/Policy Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prenatal Syphilis Screening Laws
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD QCS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Additional Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About the Division of STD Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fundingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Disease Intervention Training Centers (DITC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * National Network of STD Clinical Prevention Training Centers (NNPTC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * SSuN: Program and other NOFO Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Funding Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Strategic Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive

Follow STD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Social_round_twitter twitter STD on Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Social_round_facebook facebook STD on Facebook

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

