https://www.cdc.gov/std/life-stages-populations/stdfact-teens.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/std/life-stages-populations/stdfact-teens.htm    
                Description: CDC Fact Sheet: Information for Teens: Staying Healthy and Preventing STDs    
                Keywords: Adolescents, STD, CDC    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Sexually Transmitted Diseases

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# CDC Fact Sheet: Information for Teens and Young Adults: Staying Healthy and
Preventing STDs

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

![If you choose to have sex know how to protect yourself against
STDs.](/std/life-stages-populations/images/adol-FS.jpg)



Print Version Cdc-pdf

The content here can be syndicated (added to your web site).

### What are sexually transmitted diseases (STDs)?

STDs are diseases that are passed from one person to another through sexual
contact. These include chlamydia, gonorrhea, genital herpes, human
papillomavirus (HPV), syphilis, and HIV. Many of these STDs do not show
symptoms for a long time. Even without symptoms, they can still be harmful and
passed on during sex.

### How are STDs spread?

You can get an STD by having vaginal, anal or oral sex with someone who has an
STD. Anyone who is sexually active can get an STD. You don't even have to "go
all the way" (have anal or vaginal sex) to get an STD. This is because some
STDs, like herpes and HPV, are spread by skin-to-skin contact.

![Teen girl](/std/life-stages-populations/images/teen-couple-selfie.jpg)

### How common are STDs?

STDs are common, especially among young people. There are about 20 million new
cases of STDs each year in the United States. About half of these infections
are in people between the ages of 15 and 24. Young people are at greater risk
of getting an STD for several reasons:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Young women's bodies are biologically more prone to STDs.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Some young people do not get the recommended STD tests.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Many young people are hesitant to talk openly and honestly with a doctor or nurse about their sex lives.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Not having insurance or transportation can make it more difficult for young people to access STD testing.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Some young people have more than one sex partner.

### What can I do to protect myself?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The surest way to protect yourself against STDs is to not have sex. That means not having any vaginal, anal, or oral sex ("abstinence"). There are many things to consider before having sexExternal. It's okay to say "no" if you don't want to have sex.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * If you do decide to have sex, you and your partner should get tested for STDs beforehand. Make sure that you and your partner use a condom from start to finish every time you have oral, anal, or vaginal sex. Know where to get condoms and how to use them correctly. It is not safe to stop using condoms unless you've both been tested for STDs, know your results, and are in a mutually monogamous relationship.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mutual monogamy means that you and your partner both agree to only have sexual contact with each other. This can help protect against STDs, as long as you've both been tested and know you're STD-free.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Before you have sex, talk with your partner about how you will prevent STDs and pregnancy. If you think you're ready to have sex, you need to be ready to protect your body. You should also talk to your partner ahead of time about what you will and will not do sexually. Your partner should always respect your right to say no to anything that doesn't feel right.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Make sure you get the health care you need. Ask a doctor or nurse about STD testing and about vaccines against HPV and hepatitis B.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Girls and young women may have extra needs to protect their reproductive health. Talk to your doctor or nurse about regular cervical cancer screening, and chlamydia and gonorrhea testing. You may also want to discuss unintended pregnancy and birth control.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Avoid mixing alcohol and/or recreational drugs with sex. If you use alcohol and drugs, you are more likely to take risks, like not using a condom or having sex with someone you normally wouldn't have sex with.

### If I get an STD, how will I know?

![I was just diagnosed. What do I do
now?](/std/prevention/images/justDiagnosedButton.png)

Many STDs don't cause any symptoms that you would notice. The only way to know
for sure if you have an STD is to get tested. You can get an STD from having
sex with someone who has no symptoms. Just like you, that person might not
even know he or she has an STD.

### Where can I get tested?

There are places that offer teen-friendly, confidential, and free STD tests.
This means that no one has to find out you've been tested. Visit GetTested to
find an STD testing location near you.

### Can STDs be treated?

Your doctor can prescribe medicine to cure some STDs, like chlamydia and
gonorrhea. Other STDs, like herpes, can't be cured, but you can take medicine
to help with the symptoms.

If you are ever treated for an STD, be sure to finish all of your medicine,
even if you feel better before you finish it all. Ask the doctor or nurse
about testing and treatment for your partner, too. You and your partner should
avoid having sex until you've both been treated. Otherwise, you may continue
to pass the STD back and forth. It is possible to get an STD again (after
you've been treated), if you have sex with someone who has an STD.

### What happens if I don't treat an STD?

Some curable STDs can be dangerous if they aren't treated. For example, if
left untreated, chlamydia and gonorrhea can make it difficult--or even
impossible--for a woman to get pregnant. You also increase your chances of
getting HIV if you have an untreated STD. Some STDs, like HIV, can be fatal if
left untreated.

### What if my partner or I have an incurable STD?

Some STDs, like herpes and HIV, aren't curable, but a doctor can prescribe
medicine to treat the symptoms.

If you are living with an STD, it's important to tell your partner before you
have sex. Although it may be uncomfortable to talk about your STD, open and
honest conversation can help your partner make informed decisions to protect
his or her health.

### If I have questions, who can answer them?

If you have questions, talk to a parent or other trusted adult. Don't be
afraid to be open and honest with them about your concerns. If you're ever
confused or need advice, they're the first place to start. After all, they
were young once, too.

Talking about sex with a parent or another adult doesn't need to be a one-time
conversation. It's best to leave the door open for conversations in the
future.

It's also important to talk honestly with a doctor or nurse. Ask which STD
tests and vaccines they recommend for you.

![More STD Fact Sheets](/std/images/promos/ALLfs180.png)

### Where can I get more information?

CDC  
How You Can Prevent Sexually Transmitted Diseases  
Teen Pregnancy

STD information and referrals to STD Clinics  
CDC-INFO  
1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636)  
TTY: 1-888-232-6348  
In English, en Español

GirlsHealth.gov  
Straight talk about sexually transmitted infectionsExternal

HealthFinder.gov  
STD Testing: Conversation StartersExternal

American Sexual Health Association  
Sexual Health and YouExternal  
Teens and Young AdultsExternal

### References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Incidence, Prevalence, and Cost of
Sexually Transmitted Infections in the United StatesCdc-pdf. Accessed April 2,
2013.

#### Related Content

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * KABI Chronicles: The Edge Motion Comic Series - An original, comic-based, serial drama following the lives of nine fictional high school and college friends as they navigate young adulthood, while also educating viewers about HIV and STDs. (August 4, 2016)

Page last reviewed: May 22, 2014

Content source: Division of STD Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS,
Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention

home Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diseases & Related Conditionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Chlamydia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gonorrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Herpes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * HIV/AIDS & STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Human Papillomavirus (HPV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STDs & Infertility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STDs during Pregnancyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Detailed Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment and Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Risk and Oral Sex
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Trichomoniasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other STDsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Life Stages and Populationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Adolescents and Young Adultsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Adolescents and Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Adolescents and STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gay, Bisexual and Other MSMplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gay Men & STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Just Diagnosed?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Which STD Tests Should I Get?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Lowdown Infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Program Management & Evaluation Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Effective Interventions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gap Assessment Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Outbreak Response Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Congenital Syphilis HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Disseminated Gonococcal Infection HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gonorrhea with Reduced SusceptibilityÂ HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * LGV HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Practical Use of Program Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Program Operations Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * S.P.A.C.E. Monkey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Data Management & Information Technologyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Generic Information Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * BPMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Partner Servicesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Internet Partner Services Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * VCAmon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CS Webinar Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Projects & Initiativesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD PCHDplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * National Disease Intervention Specialist (DIS) Recognition Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance Project (GISP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Health Equityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Community Approaches to Reducing STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Indian Health Service Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * SDMB Contacts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tools & Materialsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Brochuresplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * The Facts Brochures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * ä¸­æ (Chinese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * KreyÃ²l (Haitian Creole)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ð ÑÑÑÐºÐ¸Ð¹ (Russian)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tiáº½ng ViÃªt (Vietnamese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prevention Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Provider Pocket Guides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicated Content
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Videos and Podcastsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Letâs Talk About Sexual Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Safe in the City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Webinars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Widgets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Trainingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Prevention Coursesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Passport to Partner Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Advanced STD Intervention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Visual Case Analysis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Principles of STD Supervision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STD Intervention for Supervisors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Essentials of STD Supervision I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tailored Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Continuing Education Online
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * SASSI â SAS Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD 101 in a Boxplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Script for _Sex in the City_ Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Clinical Slidesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STD Clinical Slides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Picture Cardsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STD Picture Cards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment and Screeningplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Drug Noticesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gemifloxacin 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Procaine Penicillin G Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Erythromycin (0.5%) Ophthalmic Ointment Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Expedited Partner Therapyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gonorrhea Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Legal Status of EPT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Legal/Policy Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prenatal Syphilis Screening Laws
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD QCS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Additional Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About the Division of STD Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fundingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Disease Intervention Training Centers (DITC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * National Network of STD Clinical Prevention Training Centers (NNPTC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * SSuN: Program and other NOFO Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Funding Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Strategic Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive

### Find an STD testing site near you.

ZIP Code:  

Follow STD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Social_round_twitter twitter STD on Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Social_round_facebook facebook STD on Facebook

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

