https://www.cdc.gov/std/gisp/default.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/std/gisp/default.htm    
                Description: Gonorrhea Isolate Surveillance Project.  Protocol, Sentinel Sites, Forms &amp; Coding Guide, Surveillance Reports.    
                Keywords: Gonorrhea,  gonorhea,  gonnorhea,  gonorrea,  the clap,  Neisseria gonorrhoeae,  N. gonorrhoeae,  GC,  Facts,  Treatment,  Statistics,  Antimicrobial Resistant,  Antibiotic Resistant,  GISP,  ARG,  STD,  CDC, Gonorrhea and Drug Resistance    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance Project (GISP)

Minus

Related Pages

Antibiotic resistance (AR) is the ability of bacteria to resist the effects of
all of the drugs used to treat them. This means the germs are not killed and
they will continue to reproduce.  _Neisseria gonorrhoeae_ , the bacterium that
causes the sexually-transmitted disease gonorrhea, has developed resistance to
nearly all of the antibiotics used for gonorrhea treatment.

![Figure 33. Area chart showing the distribution of primary antimicrobial
drugs used to treat gonorrhea among participants from 1988 to 2017. Data from
the Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance
Project.](/std/stats17/figs/fig33-medium.jpg)

Area chart showing the distribution of primary antimicrobial drugs used to
treat gonorrhea among participants from 1988 to 2017.

The Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance Project (GISP) was established in 1986 to
monitor AR trends in _N. gonorrhoeae_ bacteria in the United States. GISP is a
collaborative project among selected STD clinics and their state or local
public health authorities,  GISP regional laboratories, and CDC. Public health
officials and healthcare providers use the data collected in GISP to ensure
that gonorrhea is successfully treated with the right antibiotic.

In GISP, _N. gonorrhoeae_ specimens are collected each month from the first 25
men who attend STD clinics in selected U.S. cities and who have also been
diagnosed with urethral gonorrhea. Participating regional laboratories test
the specimens for resistance to the antibiotic drugs azithromycin, cefixime,
ceftriaxone, ciprofloxacin, gentamicin, penicillin, and tetracycline. These
are antibiotics which either are currently or were previously used for
gonorrhea treatment. The ability of the bacteria to resist the effect of the
antibiotics in the laboratory is measured, and the results are interpreted
according to criteria recommended by the Clinical and Laboratory Standards
Institute (CLSI). The results of these tests are then transmitted to CDC where
they are collated and analyzed.

Recently Published GISP Studies

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _Neisseria gonorrhoeae_ Antimicrobial Susceptibility Surveillance - The Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance Project, 27 Sites, United States, 2014 MMWR July 14, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ciprofloxacin resistance and gonorrhea incidence rates in 17 cities, United States, 1991-2006. Emerg Infect Dis [Internet]. 2014 Apr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Trends in antimicrobial resistance in _Neisseria gonorrhoeae_ in the United States--the Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance Project (GISP), January 2006-June 2012External. Sexually Transmitted Infections 2013; 89(Suppl 4): iv5-iv10.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _Neisseria gonorrhoeae_ antibiotic resistance among men who have sex with men and men who have sex exclusively with women, the Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance Project, 2005-2010External. Annals of Internal Medicine 2013;158(5):321-328.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cephalosporin-resistant gonorrhea in North AmericaExternal. Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA) 2013;309(2):185-187.

GISP Protocol

![](/std/gisp/images/gispProtocolThumb.jpg)

GISP Protocol Cdc-pdf(May 2016)

GISP Profiles

2017 GISP Profiles (site-specific GISP data)

GISP Forms and Coding Guide

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * GISP Form 1: Demographic/Clinical DataCdc-pdf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * GISP Form 2: Antimicrobial Susceptibility TestingCdc-pdf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * GISP Form 3: Control Strain Susceptibility TestingCdc-pdf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Coding Guide for GISP FormsCdc-pdf (updated March 2016)

Regional Laboratories and Sentinel Sites

#### Regional Laboratories

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Maryland
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tennessee
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Texas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Washington State

#### Sentinel Sites

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Albuquerque, NM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Anchorage, AK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Atlanta, GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Birmingham, AL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Boston, MA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Buffalo, NY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Camden, NJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Chicago, IL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cleveland, OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Columbus, OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Dallas, TX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Denver, CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Greensboro, NC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Honolulu, HI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Indianapolis, IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jackson, MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Kansas City, MO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Las Vegas, NV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Los Angeles, CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Milwaukee, WI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Minneapolis, MN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * New Orleans, LA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * New York, NY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Orange County, CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Philadelphia, PA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Phoenix, AZ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pontiac, MI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Portland, OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * San Diego, CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * San Francisco, CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Seattle, WA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tripler Army Medical Center, Honolulu, HI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Washington, D.C.

Page last reviewed: August 5, 2015

Content source: Division of STD Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS,
Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention

home Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diseases & Related Conditionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Chlamydia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gonorrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Herpes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * HIV/AIDS & STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Human Papillomavirus (HPV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STDs & Infertility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STDs during Pregnancyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Detailed Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment and Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Risk and Oral Sex
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Trichomoniasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other STDsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Life Stages and Populationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Adolescents and Young Adultsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Adolescents and Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Adolescents and STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gay, Bisexual and Other MSMplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gay Men & STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Just Diagnosed?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Which STD Tests Should I Get?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Lowdown Infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Program Management & Evaluation Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Effective Interventions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gap Assessment Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Outbreak Response Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Congenital Syphilis HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Disseminated Gonococcal Infection HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gonorrhea with Reduced SusceptibilityÂ HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * LGV HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Practical Use of Program Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Program Operations Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * S.P.A.C.E. Monkey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Data Management & Information Technologyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Generic Information Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * BPMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Partner Servicesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Internet Partner Services Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * VCAmon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CS Webinar Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Projects & Initiativesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD PCHDplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * National Disease Intervention Specialist (DIS) Recognition Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance Project (GISP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Health Equityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Community Approaches to Reducing STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Indian Health Service Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * SDMB Contacts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tools & Materialsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Brochuresplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * The Facts Brochures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * ä¸­æ (Chinese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * KreyÃ²l (Haitian Creole)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ð ÑÑÑÐºÐ¸Ð¹ (Russian)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tiáº½ng ViÃªt (Vietnamese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prevention Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Provider Pocket Guides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicated Content
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Videos and Podcastsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Letâs Talk About Sexual Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Safe in the City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Webinars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Widgets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Trainingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Prevention Coursesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Passport to Partner Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Advanced STD Intervention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Visual Case Analysis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Principles of STD Supervision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STD Intervention for Supervisors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Essentials of STD Supervision I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tailored Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Continuing Education Online
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * SASSI â SAS Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD 101 in a Boxplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Script for _Sex in the City_ Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Clinical Slidesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STD Clinical Slides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Picture Cardsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STD Picture Cards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment and Screeningplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Drug Noticesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gemifloxacin 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Procaine Penicillin G Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Erythromycin (0.5%) Ophthalmic Ointment Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Expedited Partner Therapyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gonorrhea Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Legal Status of EPT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Legal/Policy Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prenatal Syphilis Screening Laws
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD QCS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Additional Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About the Division of STD Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fundingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Disease Intervention Training Centers (DITC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * National Network of STD Clinical Prevention Training Centers (NNPTC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * SSuN: Program and other NOFO Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Funding Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Strategic Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive

Follow STD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Social_round_twitter twitter STD on Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Social_round_facebook facebook STD on Facebook

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

