https://www.cdc.gov/std/training/std101/exercise/sex_in_the_city_script.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/std/training/std101/exercise/sex_in_the_city_script.htm    
                Description: This link contains GRAPHIC IMAGES of sexually transmitted diseases intended for educational and teaching purposes, and may not be appropriate for all audiences.    
                Keywords: STD 101, sex in the city, presentations, warning, graphic, symptoms, Training, STD Prevention, STD, CDC    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Script for Sex in the City, An Inside View Video

Minus

Related Pages

Exercise and Video

See the User's Guide Cdc-word[DOCX - 160 KB] for more information about these
presentations and how they may be customized.

![screen capture](/STD/training/std101/exercise/video-1.gif)

**Facilitator:** Welcome to the educational theatre exercise: "Sex in the
City; An Inside View." You will be a participant in this exercise and you will
experience what really happens during sex; how HIV is transmitted and how STDs
make it easier. My name is ________ and I will be your narrator. I'll be
walking you through each scene. I have the only speaking part. The PINK PARTS
are non-moving, but the rest are moving parts. From time to time during the
movements, I will issue a FREEZE command. At that time, all players should
stop instantly.

Before we begin, let me introduce you to the players. First, we have a BODY
CAVITY formed by the pink parts into the shape of a U. A body cavity is lined
with PINK PARTS, which are really - squamous and columnar epithelial cells.
This could be a vagina, rectum, urethra, or mouth. It doesn't matter because
the lining is the same in all sites. These cells overlap and form a barrier.
All PINK PARTS now join hands. Choose the body cavity you would like to
portray.

Next, meet the SUBMUCOSA. This is the layer just underneath the lining of the
body cavity. Here you will find some WHITE BLOOD CELLS (WBC) who are soldiers
in the 'battle' that takes place when germs enter any body cavity.

#1 is the Scout Immune Cell affectionately known as the SCOUT CELL. Scout
immune cells include macrophage cells and dendritic cells. The Scout cell's
job is to rush to the pink parts if any germs or irritants get into the body
cavity. The Scout cell then tries to destroy the germ.

#2 are the T4 LYMPHOCYTE CELLS. The T4's job is to signal the bloodstream when
the germ gets into the body cavity to get it to start making antibodies to
fight off the infection.

A strange coincidence is that both Scout cells and T4s have a specific
receptor on the outside called a CD4 RECEPTOR. These players please raise one
arm and open your hand. Keep your arm raised.

Now, meet the HIV GERM. HIV is a scary germ, but really it's sort of wimpy in
that it can't live on its own. It has to get inside a cell and live there. If
HIV doesn't infect a cell and get inside it after 24 hours (often only 6 - 8
hours), it will die. The HIV germ has a protein on the outside called an
ATTACHMENT PROTEIN. These players raise one arm and make a fist. In order for
HIV to infect a cell, the attachment protein has to find a cell with a
specific receptor. It just so happens that the one and only receptor that fits
HIV, is the CD4 receptor (see the raised open hands). These of course, are on
the Scout cells and the T4 cells. If this connection is not made, then
infection can't happen.

Lastly, meet the STD GERMS. These can be bacterial ones like gonorrhea and
chlamydia, or viral ones like herpes. They all have the same effect in
connection with HIV. Unlike HIV,

STD GERMS directly infect PINK PARTS. These players should do a doggie paddle
motion with your hands and paddle against the joined hands of the PINK PARTS.
PINK PARTS drop your arms to indicate that you have been infected and the
layer of protection is disrupted.

Now, let the action begin.

![screen capture](/STD/training/std101/exercise/video-2.gif)

SCENE 1:

Here is a healthy body cavity. See how the cells are joined and form a barrier
(hands held). The Scout cells and T4 cells are under the surface, but not on
the lining of the pink parts. Sex happens. It could be oral sex, vaginal sex
or rectal sex, it doesn't matter. The body fluid (either semen or
cervical/vaginal secretions) gets into the body cavity. The body fluid has HIV
germs in it. HIV germs please go into the BODY CAVITY with your arms raised
with fists. The HIV germs are desperately looking for a CD4 receptor - in
order to live. But, they can't find one. The pink parts don't have CD4
receptors and HIV can't infect them. They also can't reach the Scout cells or
the T4 cells because the lining is intact. Scout cells please wave your raised
arms with open hands. The HIV germs are dying…dying…dying…dead. HIV germs
please run out of the body cavity. The HIV germs are now just part of the wet
spot on the sheet. CUT!

Any questions, any answers? Process responses.

![screen capture](/STD/training/std101/exercise/video-3.gif)

SCENE 2:

Here is the same healthy body cavity. See how the cells are joined and form a
barrier (hands held). The Scout cells and T4 cells are under the surface, but
not on the lining of the pink parts. Sex happens. This time, STD germs are in
the semen or cervical/vaginal secretions. Unlike HIV, STD germs do attack the
pink parts and infect those cells. STD germs please go into the BODY CAVITY
and start paddling the joined hands of the pink parts. Pink parts should drop
their hands after being struck. This wakes up the Scout cells that rush into
the cavity to fight off the STD germs. Now, let's say the person who owns this
body cavity actually goes for care and gets treatment for the STD infection.
The STD germs die. STD germs please run out of the body cavity. The Scout
cells still hang out in the body cavity, because they're not really sure what
is happening. Maybe, the STD germs are coming back? CUT!

Explain that STDs aren't the only things that cause Scout cells to come out
into the body cavity. Things that cause inflammation, like douches, products,
ectopy, etc. can have the same effect.

Any questions, any answers? Process responses.

SCENE 3:

Sex happens again. This time there are HIV germs in the semen/cervical vaginal
secretions. HIV germs please enter the body cavity with your raised fists.
This time, the HIV germs find their lifeline, the CD4 receptors on the Scout
cells. Scout cells - please grab the fist of the HIV germ with your raised
open hand. The Scout cells are now infected. They go back to the submucosa and
they take the HIV germs with them. Attached Scout cells and HIV germs please
move to the submucosa. There, they find the T4 cells and give some HIV to
them. HIV germs give the T4 cells your small yellow card with HIV written on
them. The T4 cells run to the bloodstream to alert other immune cells to begin
making antibodies - but HIV finds more CD4 cells to attach to in the
bloodstream and this is how the bloodstream becomes infected. T4 cells take
the HIV card and run to the bloodstream. Meanwhile, infected Scout cells
remain in the submucosa. CUT!

Any questions, any answers? Process any responses.

![screen capture](/STD/training/std101/exercise/video-4.gif)

SCENE 4:

Now, this is the body cavity of a person who is living with HIV/AIDS. The HIV
is in the bloodstream in the T4 cells and also still in the Scout cells under
the surface of the pink parts. The pink parts are healthy, with just a little
HIV being shed. Pink parts please join hands again and one HIV germ should
stay in the cavity. The rest of the HIV germs please stay joined to the Scout
cells in the submucosa. Sex happens AGAIN. This time, a STD is in the semen or
cervical/vaginal fluids. STD germs please run into the body cavity. The STD
germs again attack the pink parts and destroy some of the lining. Pink parts;
please drop your joined hands. The Scout cells again come out to fight off the
STD infection, but they bring the HIV germs with them. So, more HIV is being
shed out making it more likely to be passed to other sex partners - more
communicable. Now, let's say that this person living with HIV/AIDS actually
got STD testing and treatment. The STD germs will die. STD germs please run
out of the body cavity. The Scout cells eventually go back to the submucosa
and the amount of HIV germs in the body cavity goes down again. Scout cells
please take the HIV germs and go back to the submucosa. One HIV germ should
stay in the body cavity. So, by getting STD treatment, the person living with
HIV/AIDS can reduce their chances of passing HIV to a sexual partner. CUT!

Any questions, any answers? Process responses.

FINAL SCENE:

Ask participants to come out of role now and to explain how the STD/HIV inter-
relationships are like a double-edged sword. Ask participants what this
information means for them. Ask how they could apply what they learned to
their work with their clients.  


Page last reviewed: February 20, 2015

Content source: Division of STD Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS,
Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention

home Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diseases & Related Conditionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Chlamydia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gonorrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Herpes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * HIV/AIDS & STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Human Papillomavirus (HPV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STDs & Infertility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STDs during Pregnancyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Detailed Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment and Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Risk and Oral Sex
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Trichomoniasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other STDsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Life Stages and Populationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Adolescents and Young Adultsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Adolescents and Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Adolescents and STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gay, Bisexual and Other MSMplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gay Men & STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Just Diagnosed?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Which STD Tests Should I Get?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Lowdown Infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Program Management & Evaluation Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Effective Interventions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gap Assessment Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Outbreak Response Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Congenital Syphilis HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Disseminated Gonococcal Infection HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gonorrhea with Reduced SusceptibilityÂ HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * LGV HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Practical Use of Program Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Program Operations Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * S.P.A.C.E. Monkey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Data Management & Information Technologyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Generic Information Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * BPMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Partner Servicesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Internet Partner Services Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * VCAmon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CS Webinar Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Projects & Initiativesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD PCHDplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * National Disease Intervention Specialist (DIS) Recognition Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance Project (GISP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Health Equityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Community Approaches to Reducing STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Indian Health Service Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * SDMB Contacts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tools & Materialsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Brochuresplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * The Facts Brochures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * ä¸­æ (Chinese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * KreyÃ²l (Haitian Creole)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ð ÑÑÑÐºÐ¸Ð¹ (Russian)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tiáº½ng ViÃªt (Vietnamese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prevention Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Provider Pocket Guides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicated Content
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Videos and Podcastsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Letâs Talk About Sexual Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Safe in the City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Webinars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Widgets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Trainingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Prevention Coursesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Passport to Partner Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Advanced STD Intervention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Visual Case Analysis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Principles of STD Supervision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STD Intervention for Supervisors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Essentials of STD Supervision I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tailored Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Continuing Education Online
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * SASSI â SAS Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD 101 in a Boxplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Script for _Sex in the City_ Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Clinical Slidesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STD Clinical Slides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Picture Cardsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STD Picture Cards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment and Screeningplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Drug Noticesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gemifloxacin 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Procaine Penicillin G Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Erythromycin (0.5%) Ophthalmic Ointment Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Expedited Partner Therapyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gonorrhea Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Legal Status of EPT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Legal/Policy Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prenatal Syphilis Screening Laws
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD QCS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Additional Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About the Division of STD Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fundingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Disease Intervention Training Centers (DITC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * National Network of STD Clinical Prevention Training Centers (NNPTC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * SSuN: Program and other NOFO Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Funding Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Strategic Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive

Follow STD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Social_round_twitter twitter STD on Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Social_round_facebook facebook STD on Facebook

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

word

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

