https://www.cdc.gov/std/tg2015/default.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/std/tg2015/default.htm    
                Description: Treatment guidelines for sexually transmitted diseases from CDC    
                Keywords: 2015,  treatment guidelines,  treatment,  regimen,  STD,  sexually transmitted diseases,  prevention,  venereal disease,  VD,  chlamydia,  gonorrhea,  syphilis,  human papillomavirus,  HPV,  herpes,  HSV,  trichomoniasis,  bacterial vaginosis,  BV,  pelvic inflammatory disease,  PID,  candidiasis,  yeast,  hepatitis,  A,  B,  C,  urethritis,  cervicitis,  pubic lice,  scabies,  STI,  CDC, Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

2015 Sexually Transmitted Diseases Treatment Guidelines

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# 2015 Sexually Transmitted Diseases Treatment Guidelines

Minus

Related Pages

file medical solid icon

New: **_Recommendations for Providing Quality STD Clinical Services (STD
QCS)_** , a companion piece to _STD Treatment Guidelines 2015_.

### Summary

These guidelines for the treatment of persons who have or are at risk for
sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) were updated by CDC after consultation
with a group of professionals knowledgeable in the field of STDs who met in
Atlanta on April 30-May 2, 2013. The information in this report updates the
Sexually Transmitted Diseases Treatment Guidelines, 2010 ( _MMWR_ Recomm Rep
2010;59 [No. RR-12]). These updated guidelines discuss 1) alternative
treatment regimens for _Neisseria gonorrhoeae_ ; 2) the use of nucleic acid
amplification tests for the diagnosis of trichomoniasis; 3) alternative
treatment options for genital warts; 4) the role of _Mycoplasma genitalium_ in
urethritis/cervicitis and treatment-related implications; 5) updated HPV
vaccine recommendations and counseling messages; 6) the management of persons
who are transgender; 7) annual testing for hepatitis C in persons with HIV
infection; 8) updated recommendations for diagnostic evaluation of urethritis;
and 9) retesting to detect repeat infection. Physicians and other health-care
providers can use these guidelines to assist in the prevention and treatment
of STDs.

Next (Table of Contents)

![Image of empty pill bottles. NOTICE: There is currently a national shortage
of:](/std/treatment/images/drug-notice350.jpg)

Gemifloxacin

Erythromycin (0.5%) Ophthalmic Ointment

### Downloads and Resources

![STD Tx Guide App](/std/tg2015/images/app120.jpg)

Download the 2015 STD Treatment (Tx) Guide app, an easy-to-use reference that
combines information from the STD Treatment Guidelines as well as MMWR
updates, and features a streamlined interface so providers can access
treatment and diagnostic information. The free app is available for Apple
devicesexternal icon and Android devicesexternal icon.

![Thumbnail](/std/tg2015/images/tg2015-120.png)

Print version of the guidelinespdf icon

A limited amount of Wall Charts and Pocket Guides are available for you to
order from CDC-INFO on Demand. To print your own, download the high-resolution
print files here and take them to a commercial printer.

![Wall Chart](/std/tg2015/images/wallChartThumb.jpg)

Wall Chartpdf icon

![Pocket Guide](/std/tg2015/images/pocketGuideThumb.jpg)

Pocket Guidepdf icon

Highlights

Use of a 2-Dose Schedule for Human Papillomavirus Vaccination -- Updated
Recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices  MMWR
December 16, 2016

2015 CDC STD Treatment Guidelines Update Webinar in Spanish - April 5, 2016,
View recording, CE credits available

Clinical Advisory: Ocular Syphilis in the United States (October 16, 2015)

New STD Guidelines for 2015external icon - CDC Expert Commentary featuring
Kimberly Workowski, MD (October 5, 2015)

2015 STD Treatment Guidelines Overview Webinar - June 22, 2015, View
Recording, CE credits available. (June 23, 2015)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Questions & Answers (February 17, 2016)

Screening Recommendations Referenced in Treatment Guidelines and Original
Recommendation Sources (June 4, 2015)

Public Domain and Reprinting

General text information, publications available for download, and graphs
developed by CDC and presented on CDC's website are works of the United States
Government and are in the public domain. This means that they are meant for
public use and are not subject to copyright law protections. Permission is not
required for use of public domain items. But, CDC does ask that you credit the
original institution and contributor, when known, whenever the item is used in
any publicly distributed media.

You are also free to adapt and revise these materials, provided the
information is distributed free of cost; however, you must remove the CDC name
and logo if changes are made. Additionally, in accordance with 42 U.S.C.
Section 1320b-10, no person may, for a fee, reproduce, reprint, or distribute
any item consisting of a form, application, or other publication of the United
States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) unless such person has
obtained specific, written authorization for such activity. Therefore, if you
wish to sell the CDC materials presented on CDC's website, you must first
obtain permission to do so from CDC.

Page last reviewed: December 27, 2019

Content source: Division of STD Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS,
Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention

home 2015 STD Treatment Guidelines

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Table of Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Introduction and Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clinical Prevention Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Special Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Emerging Issues
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * HIV Infection: Detection,Counseling and Referral
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diseases Characterized by Genital, Anal, or Perianal Ulcers expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Chancroid
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Genital HSV Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Granuloma Inguinale (Donovanosis)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Lymphogranuloma Venereum (LGV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syphilis expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syphilis During Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Congenital Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Management of Persons Who Have a History of Penicillin Allergy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diseases Characterized by Urethritis and Cervicitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Chlamydial Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Gonococcal Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diseases Characterized by Vaginal Discharge expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Bacterial Vaginosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Trichomoniasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Vulvovaginal Candidiasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Epididymitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Human Papillomavirus (HPV) Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Anogenital Warts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * HPV-Associated Cancers and Precancers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Viral Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Proctitis, Proctocolitis, and Enteritis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ectoparasitic Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sexual Assault and Abuse and STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * References
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Terms and Abbreviations Used in This Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Consultants
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Evidence Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Screening Recommendations Referenced in Treatment Guidelines and Original Recommendation Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Questions and Answers expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Chlamydia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gonorrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Herpes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * HPV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Mycoplasma genitalium_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Screening
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sexual Assault
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Trichomoniasis

STDs Home Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment

Follow STD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Social_round_twitter twitter STD on Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Social_round_facebook facebook STD on Facebook

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

