https://www.cdc.gov/std/funding/ditc/default.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/std/funding/ditc/default.htm    
                Description: Disease Intervention Training Centers (DITC) (PS20-2003): Program and other NOFO Guidance    
                Keywords: DITC, NOFO, STD, CDC, Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Disease Intervention Training Centers (DITC) (PS20-2003): Program and other
NOFO Guidance

Minus

Related Pages

This page provides links to general information about PS20-2003, as well as
tools and information to assist applicants with the NOFO application process.

## Overview

CDC announces availability of funding for a cooperative agreement for the
Disease Intervention Training Centers (DITC). The purpose of this NOFO is
strengthen the capacity of local and state health departments to conduct
STD/HIV intervention services.  This national training center network will
support workforce capacity building for a critical classification of public
health staff, Disease Intervention Specialists (DIS). DIS are core personnel
in many local and state health departments who conduct investigation of
communicable diseases and a number of tasks related to preventing the spread
of transmission of sexually transmitted disease (STD) and HIV. These tasks
include but are not limited to: client-centered interviews; collection of
enhanced surveillance and community assessment data; partner services,
including contact tracing; field investigation and other field-based
activities, including specimen collection, directly observed therapy;
community outreach; collaboration with medical providers and navigation of
health care systems to ensure patient evaluation, treatment, linkage to care
and other supportive services; and mobilization for outbreak investigation and
emergency response. Recent assessments completed for the National Disease
Intervention Specialist (DIS) Certification Projectexternal icon, revealed a
need for standardization of DIS training to ensure comprehensive skills sets
for this classification nationwide, and enhancement of current DIS training
platforms to better support the core functions of the classification.
Standardized training for DIS nationwide is essential for consistency and
quality of disease intervention practice, as well as ensuring transference of
uniform skills for cross-program and cross-jurisdictional response. State and
local health departments have also identified other staff classifications
(e.g., public health nurses, patient navigators, linkage to care specialists),
conducting STD and HIV intervention work, for whom the same practice standards
and training are relevant.

Funding will support a network of curriculum development and training centers,
serving local and state health jurisdictions, throughout the United States.
Available funding is categorized as follows:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Track A) National Online Curriculum Development and Training center
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Track B) National Instructor-led Curriculum Development Center
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Track C) Regional Instructor-led Skills-based Training center(s)

Eligible applicants for **CDC-RFA-PS20-2003** : Government organizations of
state, local, or territorial governments or their bona fide agents are
eligible. Non-government organizations may also apply. See guidance in the
NOFO for specifics on eligibility.

### **Applications closed on November 26, 2019 at 11:59 p.m. EST.**

alert icon

Informational Webinar

grid icon

Budget Guidance

paper icon

Workplan Template

chat icon

Q&A About the NOFO

presentation icon

Other Applicant Resources

Page last reviewed: February 18, 2020

Content source: Division of STD Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS,
Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention

home Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diseases & Related Conditionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Chlamydia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gonorrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Herpes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * HIV/AIDS & STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Human Papillomavirus (HPV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STDs & Infertility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STDs during Pregnancyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Detailed Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment and Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Risk and Oral Sex
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Trichomoniasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other STDsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Life Stages and Populationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Adolescents and Young Adultsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Adolescents and Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Adolescents and STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gay, Bisexual and Other MSMplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gay Men & STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Just Diagnosed?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Which STD Tests Should I Get?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Lowdown Infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Program Management & Evaluation Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Effective Interventions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gap Assessment Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Outbreak Response Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Congenital Syphilis HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Disseminated Gonococcal Infection HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gonorrhea with Reduced SusceptibilityÂ HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * LGV HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Practical Use of Program Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Program Operations Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * S.P.A.C.E. Monkey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Data Management & Information Technologyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Generic Information Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * BPMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Partner Servicesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Internet Partner Services Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * VCAmon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CS Webinar Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Projects & Initiativesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD PCHDplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * National Disease Intervention Specialist (DIS) Recognition Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance Project (GISP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Health Equityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Community Approaches to Reducing STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Indian Health Service Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * SDMB Contacts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tools & Materialsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Brochuresplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * The Facts Brochures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * ä¸­æ (Chinese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * KreyÃ²l (Haitian Creole)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ð ÑÑÑÐºÐ¸Ð¹ (Russian)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tiáº½ng ViÃªt (Vietnamese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prevention Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Provider Pocket Guides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicated Content
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Videos and Podcastsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Letâs Talk About Sexual Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Safe in the City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Webinars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Widgets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Trainingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Prevention Coursesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Passport to Partner Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Advanced STD Intervention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Visual Case Analysis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Principles of STD Supervision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STD Intervention for Supervisors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Essentials of STD Supervision I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tailored Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Continuing Education Online
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * SASSI â SAS Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD 101 in a Boxplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Script for _Sex in the City_ Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Clinical Slidesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STD Clinical Slides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Picture Cardsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STD Picture Cards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment and Screeningplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Drug Noticesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gemifloxacin 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Procaine Penicillin G Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Erythromycin (0.5%) Ophthalmic Ointment Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Expedited Partner Therapyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gonorrhea Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Legal Status of EPT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Legal/Policy Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prenatal Syphilis Screening Laws
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD QCS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Additional Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About the Division of STD Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fundingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Disease Intervention Training Centers (DITC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * National Network of STD Clinical Prevention Training Centers (NNPTC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * SSuN: Program and other NOFO Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Funding Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Strategic Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive

STDs Home Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Chlamydia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Gonorrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Genital Herpes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * HIV/AIDS & STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Human Papillomavirus (HPV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * STDs & Infertility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * STDs & Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Trichomoniasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Other STDs

Follow STD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Social_round_twitter twitter STD on Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Social_round_facebook facebook STD on Facebook

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

