https://www.cdc.gov/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_18/tbnotes-5.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_18/tbnotes-5.htm    
                Description: Newsletters 02, 2018, Publications &amp; Products,  TB,  CDC    
                Keywords: tuberculosis,  CDC,  tb,  t.b.,  t b,  t.b,  dtbe,  USA,  mycobacterium,  division of tuberculosis elimination,  Newsletters,  2018,  Publications &amp; Products,  TB, TB and HIV Coinfection, Tuberculosis Vaccine (BCG), Tuberculosis (TB), TB Testing &amp; Diagnosis, TB Education and Training Network    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Tuberculosis (TB)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# TB NOTES

Minus

Related Pages

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_16/images/tbnotes-header.jpg)

**TB Notes 5, October 2018**

### **Notes from the Director**

Dear Colleague:

![Phil_LoBue](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_18/images/phil.jpg)

The Division of Tuberculosis Elimination (DTBE) has been involved in many
exciting events. On September 26, 2018, the United Nations General Assembly
held the first-ever High Level Meeting focused on ending TB globally. CDC
leadership and global leaders met to discuss the need for increased efforts to
test and treat persons with latent TB infection to prevent TB disease. CDC
continues to be at the forefront of researching new diagnostics and treatment
for TB, with our global efforts informed and strengthened by our domestic
accomplishments. Learn more about this important meeting later in this
edition.

DTBE staff recently traveled to Saipan and the Commonwealth of the Northern
Mariana Islands, September 2-15. In Saipan, staff conducted a three-day
training on the 2020 Report of Verified Case of Tuberculosis (RVCT) and
attended the Pacific Islands TB Controllers Association (PITCA) Conference,
where TB professionals, clinicians, and partners shared their cross-cutting
and disease-specific expertise in TB. DTBE staff also met with the
Commonwealth Healthcare Corporation (CHCC) and discussed TB control and
prevention activities funded through CDC NOFO PS18-1801, " _Accelerating the
Prevention and Control of HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STDs and TB in the U.S.
Affiliated Pacific Islands. " _

The 2018 TB Education and Training Network (ETN) and the TB Program Evaluation
Network (PEN) Conference, _Breaking through Barriers to Achieve TB
Elimination_ , was held September 18-20, in Decatur, Georgia. This year's
conference highlighted common aspects of TB education, training, and
evaluation. Presentations focused on how TB education, training, and
evaluation play key roles in removing the barriers preventing elimination of
TB in the United States. TB survivors shared their journeys through diagnosis,
treatment, and advocacy. The conference was a wonderful opportunity to network
and learn from colleagues.

We find ourselves at a critical moment in the fight against TB. The time is
now for us to come together, spur innovation, and invest in cutting-edge
science and programs to defeat TB here in the United States and around the
world.

**Philip LoBue, MD, FACP, FCCP**  
_Director_  
_Division of Tuberculosis Elimination_  
_National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention_

* * *

**10 th International Conference on Emerging Infectious Diseases**

CDC hosted the 10th International Conference on Emerging Infectious
Diseasesexternal icon in Atlanta, Georgia, **August 26 -29, 2018**.  Many
scientists in the TB community took part in this conference of over 1500
attendees.

On August 29, DTBE presented a panel session titled, "Make History: End TB" at
the conference.  Speakers included:

Jonathan Wortham, MD, Lead of the Outbreak Investigations Team, DTBE.
Jonathan gave an overview titled,"Tuberculosis Outbreaks in the United States:
A National Perspective."

Pam Barrett Scanlon, LBSW, CPM, Tuberculosis Controller, Alabama Department of
Public Health, spoke about experiences with a "Tuberculosis Outbreak in Perry
County, Alabama, and the Implementation of Interventions to Contain."

David Dowdy, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Epidemiology at the Johns Hopkins
Bloomberg School of Public Health, presented "Using Models of Transmission to
Prioritize Action in the Fight to End Tuberculosis."

Payam Nahid, MD, Professor of Medicine at the University of California San
Francisco described "New and Repurposed Drugs for Drug-Resistant
Tuberculosis."

In a separate session on Genomic Epidemiology, Ben Silk, PhD, Lead of the
Molecular Epidemiology Activity Team, DTBE, presented, "Data Integration and
Visualization for Tuberculosis Outbreak Investigations."

**_Submitted by Carla Winston, PhD, MA, DTBE_**



Open All Close All

Communications, Education, and Behavioral Studies Branch Updates

 **United Nations General Assembly first-ever High Level Meeting on
Tuberculosis**

On September 26, 2018, the United Nations General Assembly held the first-ever
High Level Meeting (UN HLM)external icon focused on ending TB globally. The UN
General Assembly (UN GA), the main decision-making body

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_18/images/UN.jpg)

of the UN representing all 193 UN Member States, convenes UN HLM. Agreement to
hold a dedicated UN HLM on a specialized topic is taken in exceptional
circumstances through a UN resolution and vote. The UN HLM on TB was the fifth
time the UN has called for a high-level meeting devoted to a health issue, the
first being the 2001 Special Session on HIV/AIDS, followed by UN HLMs on Non-
Communicable Diseases, Ebola, and Antimicrobial Resistance. It is the most
significant political meeting ever held on TB. The meeting resulted in a
Political Declaration on TBpdf iconexternal icon endorsed by Heads of State
that will form the basis for the future TB response. We hope this will lead to
a coordinated global response and lead to millions of lives saved from
premature deaths from TB.

CDC Foundation hosted a TB High Level Meeting Side Event, _Preventing TB to
End TB_. This session was an opportunity for national leaders to discuss
commitments needed to end TB, specifically by increasing efforts to test and
treat for latent TB infection The U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services,
Alex M. Azar II and CDC Director, Dr. Robert Redfield were present and shared
remarks.

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_18/images/GTBP-small.png)

Secretary Azar stated to participants at the meeting: "Domestically, we hope
our TB program can be a model for the world. The United States has one of the
lowest case rates globally, in 2017 reporting just 9,000 cases of TB. Over the
past two decades, U.S. TB control efforts have prevented an estimated 319,000
cases of TB and averted $14.5 billion in healthcare and social costs. But our
efforts still can be improved. More than 80 percent of TB disease in the
United States resulted from long-standing, untreated latent TB. Approximately
13 million people in the United States have the latent form of the disease,
and without treatment, they are at risk for developing active TB. To eliminate
TB, we will need to increase capacity to diagnose and treat people facing this
issue." The meeting provided an opportunity to showcase the U.S. commitments
and achievements to domestic and global TB.

**_Submitted by Nick DeLuca, PhD, DTBE_**

* * *

**New Spanish Whiteboard Video**

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_18/images/5_Cosas-small.png)

DTBE is excited to debut a new Spanish version of the, "5 Things to Know About
TB." The video highlights the continuing problem of TB in the United States
and the importance of addressing latent TB infection though targeted testing
and treatment.  The video was created for a general audience and can be shared
on websites and social media platforms.

**_Submitted_** ** _by Sloane_** ** _Bowman, MPH, DTBE_**

* * *

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_18/images/HRSA_CDC.png)

**New HRSA Toolkit Supports Health Centers in Expanding HIV Services**

HRSA released a new toolkit for HRSA-funded health centers on how to integrate
HIV care, treatment, and/or prevention services into their primary care
services. The toolkit shares the lessons learned and resources from 22 health
centers that participated in the Partnerships for Care (P4C) demonstration
project.

**_Submitted by Sloane Bowman, MPH, DTBE_** ** **

* * *

**TB Education and Training Network (TB ETN) and TB Program Evaluation Network
(TB PEN) Conference**

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_18/images/PLB.png)

**Breaking Through Barriers to Achieve TB Elimination**

The Tuberculosis Education and Training Network (TB ETN) and the Tuberculosis
Program Evaluation Network (TB PEN) Conference was held September 18-20, 2018
at the Marriot Courtyard in Decatur, Georgia. The theme of the 2018 conference
was _Breaking Through Barriers to Achieve TB Elimination._ The TB ETN PEN
Conference emphasized the steps of the systematic health education process and
program evaluation planning and implementation. Conference activities included
skills-based workshops, informational presentations, and networking
opportunities. Over two hundred and twenty-five participants attended the
conference. Participants included TB education and training and program
evaluation specialists from TB control programs throughout the United States
and U.S.-affiliated Pacific Islands, federal and international TB control
program staff, and other public health professionals.

The two and a half day conference included a variety of dynamic sessions
including the opening plenary delivered by Dr. LoBue, Director of the CDC
Division of TBElimination. Dr. LoBue emphasized eliminating TB through
approaches that address both TB disease and latent TB infection (LTBI). He
noted available LTBI education products and discussed the role of evaluation
in addressing TB and LTBI. Dr. LoBue also updated participants on progress
made towards the National TB Program Objectives and Performance Targets for
2020. Another plenary highlighted TB survivors who shared their journeys
through diagnosis, treatment, and advocacy. The survivors discussed their work
with _We Are TB external icon_ and the impact of their advocacy on others.

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_18/images/WeAreTB-small.jpg)

Other conference highlights included sessions on building partnerships,
communications tools and strategies, intermediate program evaluation, tools
for TB electronic directly observed therapy (eDOT), economic costing,
designing data collection instruments, and using the Surveillance for TB
Elimination Management System (STEMS) application. Speakers included experts
in TB education, training, and evaluation at the local, state, and national
levels.

The conference also hosted a scientific poster session with twenty-nine
abstracts accepted. Authors from four abstracts (two focused on TB education
and training and two focused on TB program evaluation) were invited to give
oral presentations. The four abstracts selected for oral presentations were:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _The Medium Is the Message: Effective TB Education through Creative and Culturally Agile Education Materials - Multnomah County, Oregon_, presented by Meredith Jones (Oregon)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _What Do We Need To Do Next? Training TB Program Staff in California_ , presented by Cathy Miller (California)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _Screening for Latent Tuberculosis Infection among Students in a California Public University_ , presented by Melissa Ehman (California)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _Evaluation of Contact Examination in Massachusetts, 2017_ , presented by Laura Smock (Massachusetts)

* * *

**TB Education and Training Network (TB ETN) Awards**

This conference marked the seventh year for the TB Educator of the Year Award
and TB Project Excellence Award. Established in 2010, these awards recognize
excellence in TB health education and training by TB ETN members around the
world. The TB Educator of the Year award recognizes an individual who has
shown dedication and leadership in the field of TB education, training, and
communication. There were many outstanding nominations and the winner selected
for this year's award was Clarissa Felima.

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_18/images/CN_1.jpg)

Clarissa is a TB health educator at the South Carolina Department of Health
and Environmental Control and serves as the TB program's Training and
Education Focal Point. Since joining the program in 2016, Clarissa has shown
great dedication and leadership to the field of TB education, training, and
communication. A few examples of Clarissa's work include coordinating _TB
Today!_ an annual course for healthcare workers who provide services to TB
patients, and _Advanced TB Today_!, which is designed for experienced TB
program staff. She also recently organized a TST workshop called _Place It.
Read It. Act!_ that was designed to help participants learn how to properly
administer, read, and interpret a TST. Clarissa organized activities to
commemorate World TB Day as well. Additionally, Clarissa has begun an
educational initiative regarding TB among African Americans. As part of this
effort, she created a poster that is distributed to agencies across the state
and she is working to build partnerships with internal and external
organizations.

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_18/images/KO.png)

The Project Excellence award recognizes exceptional health education and
training products or activities that have been developed by TB ETN members
within the past 2 years.

The 2018 TB Project Excellence Award went to "Tubercules Learns How You Get
Tested for TB." This video was developed by the Metro Public Health Department
in Nashville, TN and the lead for the project was Amber Coyne.

The "Tubercules" video provides a tour of the Nashville TB clinic and includes
interviews with key program staff. The program created the video because they
felt that many individuals who visit the TB clinic do not know what to expect,
and this fear can be a barrier to TB elimination. To help ease these fears,
the program developed a light-hearted film featuring a TB superhero named
"Tubercules." Throughout the video, Tubercules zooms through the Nashville TB
clinic interacting with the key players as she gets tested. On her journey,
Tubercules learns the difference between LTBI and TB disease, and the wide
range of services offered by the TB program.

The video provides viewers with a sense of what the process looks like from
the moment a patient walks in the door to the initiation of treatment. This
film is intended to be played at community events and in the TB clinic waiting
area. Congratulations to the 2018 award winners!

**_Submitted by Carissa Sera-Josef, MSHE, CHES DTBE_**

Field Services Branch

 **Texas Tuberculosis Binational Program - A Successful Public Health
Intervention Strategy**

In 2016, the incidence rate of TB in the United States (US) was 3.1 per
100,000 persons, 4.5 per 100,000 persons in Texas, and along the Texas/Mexico
border, as high as 9.5 per 100,000 (Hidalgo county).1

The estimated prevalence of latent TB infection in the United States as
measured by a positive interferon gamma release assay test ranges from 2.8% in
US born persons to 15.9% in non-US born persons. The increased risk of
exposure from high incidence locations and mobility of populations at the
Texas/Mexico border are significant determinants for latent TB infection and
disease. Differences in reporting, case detection, and treatment practices in
Mexico and Texas affect these rates.

The Texas Department of State Health Services (DSHS) through funding from CDC
supports four binational TB programs that serve high incident areas along the
Texas/Mexico border. They are: _Los Dos Laredos_ in Nuevo Laredo, Mexico;
_Grupo Sin Fronteras_ serving both Matamoros and Reynosa, Mexico; _Proyecto
Juntos_ in Cuidad Juarez, Mexico; _and Esperanza y Amistad_ serving both
Piedras Negras and Acuna, Mexico. Clients receiving services through any of
the four binational programs must meet at least one of the following criteria:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The client lives in Mexico but has relatives in the US;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The client has dual residency in the US and Mexico;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The client has contacts on both sides of the border, in the US and Mexico;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The client starts treatment in the US but returns to live in Mexico; or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The client is referred from the US for treatment or follow-up in Mexico.

The binational TB programs provide for continuity of TB care services to
interrupt transmission of TB disease. Many patients receiving care through the
binational TB program have medical risk factors that complicate care.   These
issues are addressed by referring patients to local providers in Mexico to
receive treatment for diabetes, HIV, thyroid diseases, and other medical
conditions. Heartland National TB Center (HNTC), a CDC-funded Center of
Excellence, provides expert medical consultations. Consultations are held
monthly at each binational TB program site using teleconferencing technology.
This allows for remote patient case reviews and collaborative outreach and
training.

The DSHS Laboratory performs all mycobacteriology testing for specimens
received from the binational programs. This includes testing for acid-fast
bacilli smears and culture, and drug susceptibility including applying rapid
testing technology to identify persons with TB disease. Binational TB isolates
are also sent to the CDC contracted laboratory for genotyping. Binational TB
program coordinators have access to TB Genotyping Information Management
System (GIMS) to identify and monitor concerning clusters that may have
binational links. This creates a robust program for Texas in the continuous
effort to decrease the spread of TB along the Texas/Mexico border.

Lieutenant Commander (LCDR) Angelica Martinez, US Public Health Service,
assigned by CDC to the Texas DSHS has served as the project officer to the
binational TB programs since May 2015. She has streamlined activities among
the four programs and increased collaboration between Texas and public health
partners in Mexico.   In 2018, she implemented interferon-gamma release assay
testing at all binational program sites. Infected contacts receive care
through the binational TB program because treatment for latent TB infection is
not offered in the public sector of Mexico.

The future of the binational programs in Texas is looking strong. Capacity
building efforts such as video technology to support directly observed therapy
are being explored. Additionally, the feasibility of supporting physician
services at each site is also being evaluated. Currently, the program supports
physician services at two of the four binational TB programs. The DSHS TB
Program is also developing an electronic case management and surveillance tool
that will include the collection and analysis of binational TB case data.

**_Submitted by Angelica Martinez, MT, BS, Sandra Morris, MPH, Melissa Davis,
RN, BSN, MS, Veronica Dominguez, RN, MSN, Glenda Lopez, Lupe Gonzalez,
Sharmily Roy, MPH, CHES    _**

1 Texas TB Surveillance Report 2016 Annual Report.  
2 Miramontes R, Hill AN, Yelk Woodruff RS, et al. Tuberculosis Infection in
the United States: Prevalence Estimates from the National Health and Nutrition
Examination Survey, 2011-2012. Garcia-Garcia J-M, ed. PLoS ONE.
2015;10(11):e0140881. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0140881.  
3 MacPherson DW, Gushulak BD, Baine WB, et al. Population Mobility,
Globalization, and Antimicrobial Drug Resistance. _Emerging Infectious
Diseases_. 2009;15(11):1727-1731. doi:10.3201/eid1511.090419.

Laboratory Branch Updates

 **Laboratory Branch Achieves Accreditation**

In early 2015, the Office of the Associate Director for Laboratory Science and
Safety (OADLSS) at CDC, was one of five pilot laboratories tasked with seeking
ISO17025 accreditation. This accreditation is the general requirements for the
competence of testing and calibration laboratories. The Laboratory Branch's
(LB) efforts were led by the Quality Manager, Lois Diem, and involved a high-
level of commitment, support, and effort from branch leadership and team-level
Quality Management System (QMS) POCs. LB built on an already existing robust
QMS to achieve this accreditation and worked diligently to ensure that
specifications were rolled-out to encompass quality essentials for the work of
the entire branch. The Reference Laboratory Team, under the leadership of
Beverly Metchock, contributed extraordinary effort to bring a CLIA-compliant
assay under the technical scope of accreditation. These overarching efforts
required frequent strategy and review meetings, gap analyses, constant
communication with contractors within OADLSS, revision and development of
branch-wide and team-specific standard operating procedures as well as the
deployment of a new electronic document management system. Procedures and
associated documentation were required to meet ISO requirements for a wide
variety of activities that contribute to quality including purchasing,
customer satisfaction, communication, equipment maintenance, environmental
controls, sample accessioning, technical procedures, quality control, test
reporting, training and competency, etc. These activities were completed as a
result of a tremendous team effort and countless hours of work.

On May 15-16, 2018, LB was assessed by the American Association for Laboratory
Accreditation (A2LA) for ISO17025 Accreditation. After two days, the assessor
found no deficiencies whatsoever with LB's QMS or test under scope. The
assessor gave high praise to the laboratory staff and conveyed that having
zero findings is almost unheard of following an initial assessment. The
accreditation would not have been possible without the support and dedication
of this team.

* * *

**Retirement of Denise Hartline, BS, MT (ASCP) - Microbiologist**

Denise Hartline, BS, MT (ASCP), a Microbiologist in the Division of
Tuberculosis Elimination, Laboratory Branch, retired on June 30, 2018. Since
2008, Denise has served as an integral member of the Reference Laboratory Team
(RLT) under the direction of Dr. Beverly Metchock. Prior to working at CDC,
Denise was an assistant manager in the Mycobacteriology Laboratory at the
Georgia Department of Public Health. Denise also spent some time at Emory
University Hospital in the Clinical Microbiology Laboratory. Denise's primary
focus in RLT was growth-based drug susceptibility testing and preparing
samples for the Molecular Detection of Drug Resistance Service. She took great
pride in her work and will always be remembered for her willingness and
enthusiasm to go above and beyond to help others. Denise is a true team
player. She was a tremendous asset to the laboratory and public health, both
locally and nationally. In retirement, Denise plans to spend more time with
her grandchildren, continue volunteering with the Georgia Native Plant
Society, and enjoy the great outdoors with her husband.

**_Submitted by Tracy Dalton, PhD and Beverly Metchock, DrPH, D (ABMM),
DTBE_**

Clinical Research Branch Updates

 **The Latest News from the TB Trials Consortium (TBTC)**

TBTC Study 31external icon **,** _Rifapentine-containing treatment shortening
regimens for pulmonary tuberculosis: A randomized, open-label, controlled
phase 3 clinical trial_ , continues to enroll. As of August 21, 2018, the
study had a total of 2,300 participants, 92% of target enrollment.

_TBTC Study 37_ , _ASTERoiD: Assessment of the Safety, Tolerability, and
Effectiveness of Rifapentine given Daily for LTBI) to evaluate novel ultra-
short (6 weeks) LTBI treatment regimen_. This is a collaboration with the TB
Epidemiologic Studies Consortium and Medical Research Councilexternal icon
(United Kingdom) for a 3400-patient, open-label, randomized controlled trial.
Participating sites are working on completing the start-up requirements. The
protocol leads have initiated a monthly conference call for all participating
sites. Enrollment into the trial is expected to begin late 2018.

_TBTC Study 35_ , _Phase I/II dose finding and safety study of rifapentine and
isoniazid in HIV-infected and HIV-uninfected children with latent tuberculosis
infection._ The protocol team, Data and Coordinating Center staff, and Sanofi
are working towards an investigational new drug (IND) application to FDA for
the new child-friendly rifapentine formulation to be used in Study 35. This
study will be implemented at two sites in South Africa. __

**42nd Semi-Annual TBTC Meeting external icon **

The next semi-annual TBTC meeting will take place December 5-7, 2018 at the
Courtyard Marriott hotel located in Decatur, GA. Those interested in attending
should contact Ms. Barbara DeCausey (404-639-5330; _tbtcresearchadmin@cdc.gov_
).

**_Submitted by Barbara DeCausey, MPH, MBA, DTBE_**

Data Management, Statistics, and Evaluation Branch Updates

 **TB Modeling Tool Shows Potential Impact of Improvements in TB Prevention**

Through the National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB
Prevention's cooperative agreement for epidemiologic and economic modeling,
NEEMA, Harvard University's Prevention Policy Modeling Lab in collaboration
with the CDC Division of Tuberculosis Elimination developed a web tool, Tabby,
for predicting TB trends in the United States. This tool can be used to
understand the possible trajectory of TB cases, TB deaths, latent TB infection
prevalence, and other outcomes for the population overall as well as for
specified subpopulations by age and nativity. The tool allows users to pick
several scenarios to compare, each describing strengthening one aspect of TB
services. The tool is based on a recently published modelling study1, in which
the researchers found that while the United States is unlikely to reach TB
elimination before the end of the century without intensification of TB
prevention and control activities, improvements in TB services, particularly
escalations in latent TB infection treatment, could substantially increase
rates of TB decline. More aggressive prevention and treatment (all modeled
scenarios together) could reduce TB incidence in 2050 by 77% from 2016 levels.

**_Nick Menzies, PhD, Harvard University; Suzanne Marks, MPH, MA, and Andrew
Hill, PhD, DTBE_**

1 Menzies NA, Cohen T, Hill AN, Yaesoubi R, Galer K, Wolf E, Marks SM, Salomon
JA. Prospects for Tuberculosis Elimination in the United States: Results of a
Transmission Dynamic Model. American Journal of Epideneemamiology. 2018.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29762657external icon

TB Notes Subscription and Article Submission Process

To receive the TB Notes Newsletter, enter your email address at the bottom of
the TB Notes webpage. If you would like to submit an article or update in TB
Notes, please email Sloane Bowman at wnv2@cdc.gov.

You can follow us on Twitter @CDC_TB and Facebook @CDCTB and sign up for email
here.

New CDC Publications

 **Borisov AS** , **Bamrah Morris S** , **Njie GJ** , **Winston CA** ,
**Burton D** , **Goldberg S** , **Yelk Woodruff R** , **Allen L** , **LoBue
P** , **Vernon A**. Update of recommendations for use of once-weekly
isoniazid-rifapentine regimen to treat latent _Mycobacterium tuberculosis_
infection. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2018;67:723-6.

Brown-Elliott BA, Simmer PJ, Trovato A, Hyle EP, Droz S, Buckwalter SP,
Borroni E, Branda JA, Iana E, Mariottini A, **Nelson J** , Matteelli A, Toney
NC, Scarparo C, de Man TJB, Vasireddy R, Gandhi RT, Wengenack NL, Cirillo DM,
Wallace RJ, Tortoli E. _Mycobacterium decipiens sp. nov., a new species
closely related to the Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex. external icon_ Int
J Syst Evol Microbiol 2018. Epub ahead of print.

Colangeli R, Jedrey H, Kim S, Connell R, Ma S, Chippada Venkata UD,
Chakravorty S, Gupta A, **Sizemore EE** , **Diem L** , Sherman DR, Okwera A,
Dietze R, Boom WH, Johnson JL, Mac Kenzie WR, Alland D; DMID
01-009/Tuberculosis Trials Consortium Study 22 Teams. Bacterial factors that
predict relapse after tuberculosis therapyexternal icon. N Engl J Med 2018;
379:823-33.

**Kandler JL** , **Mercante AD** , **Dalton TL** , **Ezewudo MN** , **Cowan
LS** , **Burns SP** , **Metchock B** ; Global PETTS Investigators, Cegielski
P, **Posey JE**. Validation of novel _Mycobacterium tuberculosis_ isoniazid
resistance mutations not detectable by common molecular tests.external icon
Antimicrob Agents Chemother 2018;pii:AAC.00974-18\. Epub ahead of print.
(Ezewudo, also with Critical Path Institute).

Lardizabal AA, **Khan AN** , **Bamrah Morris S** , **Goswami ND**. Notes from
the field: acquisition of delamanid under a compassionate use program for
extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis--United States, 2017. MMWR Morb Mortal
Wkly Rep 2018; 67:996-7.

Parriott A, Malekinejad M, Miller AP, Horvath H, **Marks SM** , Kahn JG. Yield
of testing and treatment for tuberculosis among foreign-born persons during
contact investigations in the United States: a semi-systematic review.external
icon PLoS One 2018;13:e0200485.

**Schmit KM** , **Lobato MN** , Lang SG, Wheeler S, Kendig NE, Bur S. High
completion rate for 12 weekly doses of isoniazid and rifapentine as treatment
for latent _Mycobacterium tuberculosis_ infection in the Federal Bureau of
Prisons.external icon J Public Health Manag Pract 2018. Epub ahead of print.

Shete PB, Boccia D, Dhavan P, Gebreselassie N, Lonnroth K, Marks S, Matteelli
A, Posey DL, van der Werf MJ, Winston CA, Lienhardt C. Defining a migrant-
inclusive tuberculosis research agenda to end TB.external icon Int J Tuberc
Lung Dis 2018;22:835-43.

Stout JE, Wu Y, Ho CS, Pettit AC, Feng PJ, Katz DJ, Ghosh S, Venkatappa T, Luo
R; Tuberculosis Epidemiologic Studies Consortium. Evaluating latent
tuberculosis infection diagnostics using latent class analysis.external icon
Thorax 2018. Epub ahead of print. (Wu, Northrop Grumman, Inc., assigned to
DTBE).

**Wortham JM**. TB anywhere is TB everywhereexternal icon. Isr J Health Policy
Res 2018;7:40

Page last reviewed: July 31, 2018

Content source: Division of Tuberculosis Elimination

home Tuberculosis

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Basic TB Factsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How TB Spreads
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Latent TB Infection and TB Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Risk Factors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Exposure to TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB & HIV Coinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB and Diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Terms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Personal Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kristi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Laura
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kelcie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tenzin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mildred
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Shaka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kelly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kim
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emily
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jerry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nauman
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nicole
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Thomas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Natalie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Esteban and Danielle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Deo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kenni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Rosalie and Faith
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Rick and Francene
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Santos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mabruka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Liliana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Martha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sarah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Testing & Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Who Should be Tested
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Testing for TB Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Testing in BCG-Vaccinated Persons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Screening and Testing of Health Care Personnel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Testing During Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diagnosing latent TB infection and TB disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Deciding When to Treat Latent TB Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment Regimens for Latent TB Infection (LTBI)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment for TB Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Adverse Events
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Treatment of Persons Living with HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Treatment and Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Treatment for Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Epidemiologic Studies Consortiumplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Research Projects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Trials Consortiumplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Study Descriptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Background
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Behavioral & Social Science Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Health Care Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Infection Control in Health Care Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources for TB Screening and Testing of Health Care Personnelplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB in Specific Populationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * African-American Communityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stop TB in the African-American Community Summit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Background
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Slideset
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Asian Community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Correctional Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Homelessness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * International Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory Informationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Drug Susceptibility Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * False-Positive Investigation Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Interim Laboratory Biosafety Guidance for XDR _Mycobacterium_ tuberculosis strains
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Model Performance Evaluation Program (MPEP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Rapid Molecular Testing to Detect Drug-Resistant TB in the USplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Executive Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Introduction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Background on Tests for Molecular Detection of DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General Considerations and Principles for a Molecular DR Testing Service
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Possible Scenarios and Scope of Testing for a Molecular DR Testing Service
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Research Needs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General Recommendations of the Expert Panel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Communication Plan for the Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * References
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Panel Members and CDC Participants
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Appendix 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Appendix 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Appendix 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Uses of Nucleic Acid Amplification Tests for the Diagnosis of TBplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General Considerations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General Recommendations of the Expert Panel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Recommendations to ACET, CDC, DTBE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Incidence in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reported TB in the US, 2018 Surveillance Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Trends in Tuberculosis 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tuberculosis in the United States, 2018 (Slide Set)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archived Surveillance Reports and Slide Sets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 2018 State and City Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archived State and City Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Professional Resources & Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tools for Healthcare Providersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Interactive Core Curriculum on Tuberculosis: What the Clinician Should Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources for TB Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Centers of Excellence 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publications & Productsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Patient and Public Materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Infection Control & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB in Specific Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Testing & Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccines & Immunizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Guidelinesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Contact Investigations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Control & Elimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Infection Control & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Laboratory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB & HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB in Specific Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Testing & Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccines & Immunizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidelines by Date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Guides & Toolkitsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Aggregate Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC TB Surveillance Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Effective TB Interviewing for Contact Investigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ethnographic Guides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * False-Positive Investigation Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Forging Partnerships to Eliminate TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guide to Application of Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * LTBI: A Guide for Primary Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Testing Products
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Report of Verified Case of Tuberculosis (RVCT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Self-Study Modules
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Contact Investigation Interviewing Skills Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB eDOT Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Understanding the TB Cohort Review Process
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Newslettersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 4, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 3, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 2, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 1, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 6, 2018Â 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 5, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 4, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 3, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 2, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 1, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 5, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 4, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 3, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 2, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 1, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 5, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 4, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 3, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 2, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 1, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pamphlets, Brochures, Bookletsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Questions and Answers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Patient Education Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tuberculosis â Get the Facts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tuberculosis â The Connection between TB and HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 12-Dose Regimen for Latent TB Infection-Patient Education Brochure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Postersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Test Wall Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * World TB Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Think TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stop TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports & Articlesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWRs)_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * DTBE Authored Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tuberculosis Laboratory Aggregate Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Slide Setsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epidemiology of Tuberculosis Among Non-U.S.ââBorn Persons in the United States, 1993â2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Self-Study Modules on Tuberculosis, 1-5 Slide Sets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * The Tuberculosis (TB) in Correctional Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facilitator Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Introduction to TB Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epidemiology of Tuberculosis in Correctional Facilities, United States, 1993-2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevention and Control of Tuberculosis in Correctional and Detention Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidelines for Preventing the Transmission of M. TB in Health care Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Investigation of Contacts of Persons with Infectious TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epidemiology of Pediatric Tuberculosis in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Targeted Tuberculosis Testing and Treatment of Latent Tuberculosis Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Electronic Tools & Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Web-Based Courses & Webinarsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB 101 for Health Care Workersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * TB 101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Interactive Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Program Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Content Syndication
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Social Media Graphics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Customizable Take on TB Infographic with Instructions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Events
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * World TB Dayplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * U.S. TB Championsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2020 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2019 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2018 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2017 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Supporting TB Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Building Partnerships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Expanding Testing and Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Focusing on Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Maximizing Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State TB Control Offices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Usplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mission Statement and Activitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * DTBE Strategic Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * National TB Program Objectives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Organization Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Advisory Groupsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Federal TB Task Force

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about TB Notes Newsletter page, enter your email
address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit





**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

