https://www.cdc.gov/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_18/tbnotes-3.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_18/tbnotes-3.htm    
                Description: Newsletters 02, 2018, Publications &amp; Products,  TB,  CDC    
                Keywords: tuberculosis,  CDC,  tb,  t.b.,  t b,  t.b,  dtbe,  USA,  mycobacterium,  division of tuberculosis elimination,  Newsletters,  2018,  Publications &amp; Products,  TB, TB and HIV Coinfection, Tuberculosis Vaccine (BCG), Tuberculosis (TB), TB Testing &amp; Diagnosis, TB Education and Training Network    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Tuberculosis (TB)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# TB NOTES

Minus

Related Pages

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_16/images/tbnotes-header.jpg)

**TB Notes 3** **2018**

### **Notes from the Director**

Dear Colleague:

![Phil_LoBue](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_18/images/phil.jpg)

This past spring, the Division of Tuberculosis Elimination (DTBE) staff have
been involved in a variety of events. DTBE hosted a TB Expert Network
Conference in late April with the TB Centers of Excellence for Training,
Education, and Medical Consultation (TB COEs). The topic of the conference was
_What 's New on the Menu for TB Treatments? A Discussion of Drugs for a
Complicated U.S. TB Patient. _

DTBE representatives attended a two-day meeting, _Primary Care and Public
Health: Partners in Prevention Meeting,_ in Atlanta May 7-8. Experts from
clinical provider associations exchanged information about ways to enhance
screening and linkage to care service. DTBE welcomed field staff to Atlanta
May 7-10 for its Field Services Branch meeting.  Field staff and headquarters
staff received updates on a variety of topics, and shared information and
ideas.

The _Tuberculosis Trials Consortium (TBTC)_ held their 41st Semi-Annual
Meeting May 8-10 in Atlanta. The meeting highlighted research on the
diagnosis, clinical management, and treatment of latent TB infection and TB
disease. The 9th _annual_ _Tuberculosis Epidemiologic Studies Consortium
(TBESC)_ meeting was held May 10-11 in Atlanta. The meeting highlighted
current and planned TBESC studies that encompass elements of latent TB
Infection testing, treatment, program evaluation, and opportunities to
increase uptake of testing and treatment, such as working with community
providers. These meetings have given us an opportunity to connect with many
important partners, set research priorities, and identify activities for us to
focus on for the remaining of the year and beyond.

Congratulations to Dr. Suraj Sable of the Laboratory Branch in DTBE, who won
first place for best poster in the safety category at the CDC Laboratory
Science Symposium. Dr. Sable presented data on the standardization and
validation of an aerosol infection model for _Mycobacterium tuberculosis_.
This work established the foundation for future studies on novel strategies
for the treatment of drug-resistant and susceptible tuberculosis using the
mouse model.

As we enter the last half of the year, I continue to be inspired by your
dedication to the very important work you do every day in our efforts to
eliminate TB. I hope all of you have a safe, enjoyable, and productive summer.

**Philip LoBue, MD, FACP, FCCP**  
_Director_  
_Division of Tuberculosis Elimination_  
_National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention_

Open All Close All

Communications, Education, and Behavioral Studies Branch Updates

**New Branch Chief**

![Nick DeLuca](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_18/images/nick.jpg)

Nickolas (Nick) DeLuca, PhD, is joining DTBE as the Chief of the
Communications, Education, and Behavioral Studies Branch (CEBSB). Dr. DeLuca
previously served as the Associate Director for Communication Science in the
Center for Global Health (CGH). There, he led a variety of important actions
including the development and implementation of many new communication
products, extensive updates to web-based and social media materials, delivery
of emergency and risk communication training to countries throughout the
world, and media relations with a variety of domestic and international media
outlets.

From 2012 to 2016, Dr. DeLuca served as the Chief of the Prevention
Communication Branch in the Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention. In that role, he
oversaw science-based HIV communications programs and campaigns promoting HIV
awareness, testing, prevention, and services for the public, persons at risk
for and living with HIV, as well as for health care professionals treating and
caring for persons with HIV. From 2008 to 2011, Dr. DeLuca was the Prevention
Advisor with CDC's Global AIDS Program in Namibia, where he managed HIV and TB
prevention, communications, education, and intervention programs.

Dr. DeLuca began his CDC career in CEBSB in 1997, and he became Team Lead for
the Education, Training, and Behavioral Studies Team in 2002. As team lead, he
oversaw a variety of behavioral science research activities and developed
numerous TB-related education, training, and communication products. He is an
author on several scientific publications from his work in DTBE. Dr. DeLuca
received his PhD in Health Education and Health Promotion from the University
of Alabama at Birmingham.

**_Submitted by Sloane Bowman, MPH, DTBE_**

* * *

**Mark your calendar for the 2018 TB Education and Training Network and TB
Program Evaluation Network Conference**

The 2018 TB Education and Training Network (ETN) and the TB Program Evaluation
Network (PEN) Conference, **_Breaking through Barriers to Achieve TB
Elimination_** , will be held September 18-20 in Decatur, Georgia. This year's
conference will highlight common aspects of TB education, training, and
evaluation. The opening plenary will focus on how TB education, training, and
evaluation play key roles in removing the barriers preventing elimination of
TB in the United States. Additional plenary sessions will include the latest
advances in latent TB infection surveillance and reporting, social media, and
presentations of some of the best state and local TB education, training, and
evaluation projects in the country.

![map_ATL](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_18/images/map_ATL.jpg)

There will be a wide variety of ETN and PEN skills-based workshops and
informational presentations. Topics for these workshops and presentations
include designing data collection instruments, engaging and educating primary
care providers on latent TB infection, and the importance of health literacy.
The conference also offers wonderful opportunities to network with colleagues.

The call for conference abstracts is open and authors of winning submissions
will share and discuss their work during a poster session. Additionally, two
ETN abstracts and two PEN abstracts will be chosen for oral presentations.
Appropriate topics for TB ETN posters include activities associated with the
systematic health education process, such as needs assessment, development,
pilot testing, implementation, and assessing effectiveness. Appropriate topics
for TB PEN posters include methods related to systematic program evaluation,
such as capacity building, engagement in monitoring and evaluation, and
sharing lessons learned from evaluation.

**Send your completed** **abstract submission form** pdf icon **to:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **TB ETN abstracts** : htz7@cdc.gov
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **TB PEN abstracts:** zex5@cdc.gov

**The deadline for abstract submission is June 29, 2018.**

The conference venue is the Marriot Courtyard Decatur, 130 Clairemont Avenue,
Decatur, Georgia 30030. To reserve a room at the conference rate, be sure to
make your reservation before August 27. You may reserve a room online at
**Book your group rate for CDC Division of TB Elimination ETN PEN 2018
Conference** external iconor by calling Marriott Central Reservations at
1-888-236-2427 or Courtyard Decatur Front Desk: 404-371-0204. Be sure to
identify yourself as an attendee of the CDC Division of TB Elimination ETN PEN
2018 Conference. The conference registration deadline is August 27. Note:
there is no registration fee to attend the conference. Please submit your
conference registration formpdf icon to tbetn@cdc.gov. For additional
information, please visit the TB ETN conference website.

**_Submitted by Peri Hopkins, MPH, DTBE_**

* * *

**TB Centers of Excellence for Training, Education, and Medical Consultation
Needs Assessment**

![COE](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_18/images/COE.jpg)

The TB Centers of Excellence for Training, Education, and Medical Consultation
(TB COEs) will be conducting a needs assessment for TB professionals this
spring/summer to identify the training, education, and medical consultation
gaps, priorities, and existing resources in their regions. The methods will
include an online survey as well as key informant interviews with TB program
staff. The online survey is tentatively scheduled to be released at the end of
May.

Results from the needs assessment will guide the development of the TB COEs'
work plans and strategies to engage their respective regions. Additionally,
DTBE will use the results from the needs assessment to develop a national
picture of training, education, and medical consultation needs. We encourage
TB Program Professionals to take the time to complete this assessment to help
the TB COEs identify your needs.

**_Submitted by Sarah Segerlind, MPH, DTBE_**

* * *

**Case Study: Instagram Story**

![WTBday](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_18/images/WTBday-small.jpg)

In honor of World TB Day, DTBE took over CDC's Instagram account. An Instagram
takeover involves assuming temporary control of someone else's Instagram
account and sharing content with their audience. A unique feature we utilized
for the takeover was an Instagram Story, which lets you share the moments of
your day. As you share multiple photos and videos, they appear together in a
slideshow format- your story. The Story vanishes after 24 hours, and the
content will not appear on the profile grid or in the main Instagram feed.

Our Instagram Story highlighted the great work of our field staff who are
embedded in state and local health departments. This Story promoted the
assistance DTBE provides to state and local TB control programs by helping to
find, treat, and prevent TB. The Instagram Story had 7,035 impressions (total
number of times the story has been seen).

![story_impressions](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_18/images/story_impressions-
small.jpg)

CDC's Instagram account currently has 74K followers. That reach allowed us to
broaden our audience and highlight TB to a new audience that may not follow
DTBE's social media platforms. An Instagram takeover is a great way to utilize
existing resources to expand reach and build brand awareness. You can also
follow us on Twitter @CDC_TB and Facebook @CDCTB and sign up for email updates
here.

**_Submitted by Sloane Bowman, MPH, DTBE_**

* * *

**Teresa Goss Hutchins Retirement**

Teresa Goss Hutchins retired on April 28, after 27 years of federal service.
Teresa began her federal career in 1991 as an administrative assistant with
the Internal Revenue Service.  In 1998, Teresa found her home at CDC in DTBE,
after her mother (also a CDC employee) encouraged her to join the agency.
Teresa worked as a Management and Program Analyst for both the Division's
Surveillance, Epidemiology, and Outbreak Investigation Branch and the Field
Services Branch.

![Teresa_Goss](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_18/images/teresa.jpg)

For the last 16 years, Teresa has served as a Training Specialist with the
Communications, Education, and Behavioral Studies Branch.  Teresa oversaw the
printing, publication, and distribution of the extensive library of DTBE
products, working closely with state and local TB control programs to ensure
they had access to publications.  She coordinated trainings, prepared
materials for countless DTBE initiatives, and completed many continuing
education applications. Teresa handled the logistics for the annual TB Program
Managers' Course and biannual TB ETN Conference.  She also managed the TB ETN
member database and TB TRAIN.

Teresa was always the first to welcome attendees to any conference or
training, greeting them with a smile and providing a perfectly organized
information packet of everything they needed. For people inside and outside
CDC, whenever a question came up about TB training, the answer was "let's ask
Teresa!" No problem was ever too big or too small for Teresa to tackle.

Teresa's giving spirit and dedication to helping others is evident in her
professional and personal life.  From tracking down information for a partner,
collecting donations to purchase holiday gifts for foster children, or
building TB-themed scarecrows for the Botanical Gardens - Scarecrows in the
Garden Event, you can always count on Teresa to be the first to volunteer to
help. We wish Teresa, her husband Todd, and her beloved dog, Bruizer, all the
best in the future!

**_Submitted by Maria Fraire Sessions, MPH, CHES, DTBE_**

Surveillance, Epidemiology, and Outbreak Investigations Branch Updates

 **Surveillance for TB Elimination Management System (STEMS)**

In keeping with the DTBE's focus on improvement of testing, treatment, and
treatment completion for latent TB infection in high-risk populations, the
Tuberculosis Epidemiologic Studies Consortium (TBESC) has developed a latent
TB infection surveillance and case management system for use by local
jurisdictions. STEMS, developed in collaboration with Northrop Grumman (NG),
is a secure, web-based system currently used for research purposes by all
TBESC health department sites. The real-time system permits evaluation and
tracking of all patients tested for latent TB infection. It is free to all
users.

Since January 2017, when STEMS was first deployed, improvements including
report functions that generate (1) lists of past or future appointments, (2)
latent TB infection tests by date and reason evaluated, and (3) a downloadable
data shell that can be populated by minimum data elements required to produce
a TB cascade to cure for high-risk populations, have been added. A contact
investigation (CI) module and a case management function for TB cases are
under development.

![TBESC](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_18/images/TBESC.png)

The CI module was demonstrated at the TBESC meeting, on May 10-11, 2018. We
will also conduct a hands-on training for attendees at the TB-Program
Evaluation Network (TB PEN) meeting in Atlanta, September 18-20, 2018. Local
areas interested in using STEMS should discuss the opportunity with their
state health department and CDC state public health advisor before contacting
Kumar Batra, Technical Program Manager (atz3@cdc.gov) for access to STEMS.

**_Submitted by Kiana Woods, MBA, DTBE_**

Laboratory Branch Updates

 **Diagnostic Mycobacteriology Workshop and Laboratory Professionals Week**

![Lab_week2018](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_18/images/Lab_week2018-small.jpg)

During the week of April 24, the DTBE Laboratory Branch hosted the annual
_Mycobacterium tuberculosis_ : Diagnostic Principles and Procedures Workshop
at CDC. Twenty laboratorians selected from states and countries across North
America participated in this four-day course. Topics related to laboratory
risk assessment, biological safety cabinet practices, specimen processing and
isolation, false-positive and false-negative results prevention,
mycobacteriology test methods, drug susceptibility testing, laboratory
performance indicators, validation principles, molecular testing including
whole genome sequencing, and TB epidemiology. Participants performed real-time
PCR during a hands-on laboratory session and contributed to individual and
group case study exercises. Participants also enjoyed a presentation titled,
_Beyond the Laboratory Walls: Enhancing Your Integrated System,_ presented by
Jessica Gentry, Tuberculosis Laboratory Supervisor at the Indiana State
Department of Health. Jessica spoke about the importance of building
relationships with the public health laboratory, TB program, and external
laboratory partners. The next TB Diagnostic Principles and Procedures Workshop
will be held in spring of 2019 with applications due in late 2018.

Medical Laboratory Professionals Week (April 22-28, 2018) was celebrated
during the workshop. Medical laboratory professionals have been recognized
during the last week of April since 1975 with the week focused on providing
recognition to the essential contributions of laboratory professionals.
Laboratory professionals play an important role in diagnosis, prevention, and
treatment of disease as well as with collaborations with other medical
professionals. For more information about Medical Laboratory Professionals
Week, please visit any of the following links:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **_The Division of Laboratory Systems (DLS) in the Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology, and Laboratory Services (CSELS)_ :  
**Medical Laboratory Professionals Week ****

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **_American Society for Clinical Pathology:_** Lab Week 2018external icon

**_  
Monica Youngblood, MPH, M (ASCP), DTBE_**

Clinical Research Branch Updates

 **The Latest News from the TB Trials Consortium (TBTC)** ** **

TBTC Study 31external icon ( _Rifapentine-containing treatment shortening
regimens for pulmonary tuberculosis: A randomized, open-label, controlled
phase 3 clinical trial_ ) continues to enroll. As of April 9, 2018, the study
had 1,887 participants, 75% of target enrollment.

![TBTC](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_18/images/TBTC-2.jpg)

TBTC Study 37external icon ( _Assessment of the Safety, Tolerability, and
Effectiveness of Rifapentine given Daily for latent TB infection_ ). The goal
of this study is to evaluate novel ultra-short (6 weeks) latent TB infection
treatment regimen. This is a collaboration with the TB Epidemiologic Studies
Consortium and the Medical Research Councilexternal icon (United Kingdom) for
a 3,400-patient, open-label, randomized controlled trial. The CDC IRB has
approved the study and it is now on the clinical trialsexternal icon website.
Participating sites are working on obtaining local IRB approvals. TBTC aims to
start enrollment into the trial in the late summer early fall of 2018.

TBTC was a runner up for the Kochon Prize 2017 for their work on TB drugs. The
Kochon Prize has been given annually for the past 11 years to individuals
and/or organizations that have made a highly significant contribution to
ending TB. The semi-annual TBTC meeting took place on May 8-10, 2018 at the
Crown Plaza Ravinia hotel in Atlanta.

**CROI Report**

The AIDS Clinical Trials Group (ACTG) presented One _Month of
Rifapentine/Isoniazid to Prevent TB in People with HIV: Brief-TB/A5279_
external icon at the 2018 Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic
Infections (CROI). The results conclude that 1HP provides a highly effective,
ultra-short course regimen for the prevention of TB in people with HIV.

**_Submitted by Barbara DeCausey, MPH, MBA, DTBE_**

Data Management, Statistics, and Evaluation Branch Updates

This summary describes the recently published manuscript, _Development of a
Surveillance Definition for United States -Mexico Binational Cases of
Tuberculosis_, by Rachel Yelk Woodruff, Mark Miner, Roque Miramontes in
collaboration with Juli Bettridge, Miguel Escobedo, Diana Fortune, Maria
Galvis, Lupe Gonzalez, Eric Hawkins, Paula Kriner, Kathleen Moser, Maria
Rodriquez, Neha Shah, Cynthia Tafolla, and Courtney Yuen.

Successful treatment of persons with TB who cross international borders during
their infectious or treatment periods requires significant collaborative
efforts among TB programs in more than one country. However, due to the lack
of a uniformly applied surveillance definition for binational TB cases, there
is currently no available data to quantitatively describe the extent of the
increased staff time and resources binational cases require of United States
TB control programs or epidemiologic trends in binational cases over time.
Furthermore, the lack of standardized identification of binational TB cases
makes it difficult for programs to evaluate and improve binational TB control
activities.

The objective of this study was to develop a surveillance definition for
binational (United States-Mexico) cases of TB to assess the burden on US TB
program resources.

We collaborated with state and local TB program staff members in the United
States to identify characteristics associated with binational cases of TB. We
collected data on all cases of TB from 9 pilot sites in 5 states (Arizona,
California, Colorado, New Mexico, and Texas) during January 1-June 30, 2014,
that had at least 1 binational characteristic. A workgroup of U.S. state,
local, and federal partners reviewed results and used them to develop a
practical surveillance definition.

The Surveillance Definition for Binational Tuberculosis Cases Workgroup
recommended the following definition for a binational case of TB:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tuberculosis disease in a patient who crossed the border into the U.S. from Mexico during treatment, or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tuberculosis disease in a patient who was referred to a US-funded, binational TB program for treatment continuity (i.e., a patient who was being treated in the United States but it was known that he or she would cross the border to Mexico), or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tuberculosis disease in a patient who does not physically reside in the U.S. and did not receive treatment in the U.S. but received treatment in Mexico through a US-funded, binational program (i.e., funding for patient's treatment in Mexico came from the United States; unknown if patient will ever cross the border to the U.S.).

The pilot sites reported 87 cases of TB with at least 1 binational
characteristic during the project period. Applying the new proposed
definition, 39 of 87 pilot cases of TB (45%) met the definition of binational.

Input from partners who were responsible for the care and treatment of
patients who cross the United States-Mexico border was crucial in defining a
binational case of TB. Our definition will allow local and national analysis
of trends and evaluation of activities, which will ultimately lead to
improvement in the care, and management of binational TB patients. The full
manuscript is available in Sage Journals Public Health Reportsexternal icon.

**_Submitted by Rachel Yelk Woodruff, MPH, DTBE_**

New CDC Publications

 **April 2018**

Beavers SF, Pascopella L, Davidow AL, Mangan JM, Hirsch-Moverman YR, Golub JE,
Blumberg HM, Webb RM, Royce RA, Buskin SE, Leonard MK, Weinfurter PC, Belknap
RW, Hughes SE, Warkentin JV, Welbel SF, Miller TL, Kundipati SR, Lauzardo M,
Barry PM, Katz DJ, Garrett DO, Graviss EA, Flood JM; Tuberculosis
Epidemiologic Studies Consortium. Tuberculosis mortality in the United States:
epidemiology and prevention opportunities.external icon Ann Am Thorac Soc
2018. Epub ahead of print.

Green KD, Biswas T, Pang AH, Willby MJ, Reed MS, Stuchlik O, Pohl J, Posey JE,
Tsodikov OV, Garneau-Tsodikova S. Acetylation by Eis and deacetylation by
Rv1151c of _Mycobacterium tuberculosis_ HupB: biochemical and structural
insight.external icon Biochemistry 2018;57:781-90.

Poghotanyan G, Feng Z, Glasser JW, Hill AN. Constrained minimization problems
for the reproduction number in meta-population models.external icon J Math
Biol 2018. Epub ahead of print.

Shah NS, Westenhouse J, Lowenthal P, Schecter G, True L, Mase S, Barry PM,
Flood J. The California Multidrug-Resistant Tuberculosis Consult Service: a
partnership of state and local programs.external icon Public Health Action
2018;8:7-13.

Weiner M, Gelfond J, Johnson-Pais TL, Engle M, Peloquin CA, Johnson JL,
Sizemore EE, Mac Kenzie WR; Pharmacokinetics/Pharmacodynamics Group of
Tuberculosis Trials Consortium. Elevated plasma moxifloxacin concentrations
and _SLCO1B1_ g.-11187>A polymorphism in adults with pulmonary
tuberculosis.external icon Antimicrob Agents Chemother 2018;pii:AAC.01802-17\.
Epub ahead of print.



**May 2018**

Reaves EJ, Shah S, France AM, Morris SB, Bradley H. In reply: latent
tuberculous infection testing among HIV-infected persons in clinical
care.external icon Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2018;22:468-9\. (Also from DHAP
[France and Bradley]).

Stewart RJ, Tsang CA, Pratt RH, Price SF, Langer AJ. Tuberculosis--United
States, 2017.external icon MMWR Morb Mortal Weekly Rep 2018; 67:317-23.

Woodruff RSY, Miner MC, Miramontes R. Development of a surveillance definition
for United States-Mexico binational cases of tuberculosis.external icon Public
Health Rep 2018;133:155-62.

TB Notes Subscription and Article Submission Process

To receive the TB Notes Newsletter, enter your email address at the bottom of
the TB Notes webpage.  
If you would like to submit an article or update in TB Notes, please email
Sloane Bowman at wnv2@cdc.gov

Page last reviewed: January 12, 2018

Content source: Division of Tuberculosis Elimination

home Tuberculosis

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Basic TB Factsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How TB Spreads
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Latent TB Infection and TB Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Risk Factors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Exposure to TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB & HIV Coinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB and Diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Terms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Personal Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kristi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Laura
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kelcie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tenzin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mildred
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Shaka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kelly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kim
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emily
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jerry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nauman
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nicole
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Thomas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Natalie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Esteban and Danielle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Deo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kenni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Rosalie and Faith
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Rick and Francene
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Santos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mabruka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Liliana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Martha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sarah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Testing & Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Who Should be Tested
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Testing for TB Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Testing in BCG-Vaccinated Persons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Screening and Testing of Health Care Personnel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Testing During Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diagnosing latent TB infection and TB disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Deciding When to Treat Latent TB Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment Regimens for Latent TB Infection (LTBI)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment for TB Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Adverse Events
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Treatment of Persons Living with HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Treatment and Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Treatment for Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Epidemiologic Studies Consortiumplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Research Projects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Trials Consortiumplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Study Descriptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Background
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Behavioral & Social Science Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Health Care Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Infection Control in Health Care Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources for TB Screening and Testing of Health Care Personnelplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB in Specific Populationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * African-American Communityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stop TB in the African-American Community Summit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Background
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Slideset
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Asian Community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Correctional Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Homelessness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * International Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory Informationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Drug Susceptibility Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * False-Positive Investigation Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Interim Laboratory Biosafety Guidance for XDR _Mycobacterium_ tuberculosis strains
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Model Performance Evaluation Program (MPEP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Rapid Molecular Testing to Detect Drug-Resistant TB in the USplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Executive Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Introduction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Background on Tests for Molecular Detection of DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General Considerations and Principles for a Molecular DR Testing Service
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Possible Scenarios and Scope of Testing for a Molecular DR Testing Service
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Research Needs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General Recommendations of the Expert Panel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Communication Plan for the Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * References
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Panel Members and CDC Participants
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Appendix 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Appendix 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Appendix 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Uses of Nucleic Acid Amplification Tests for the Diagnosis of TBplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General Considerations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General Recommendations of the Expert Panel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Recommendations to ACET, CDC, DTBE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Incidence in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reported TB in the US, 2018 Surveillance Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Trends in Tuberculosis 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tuberculosis in the United States, 2018 (Slide Set)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archived Surveillance Reports and Slide Sets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 2018 State and City Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archived State and City Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Professional Resources & Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tools for Healthcare Providersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Interactive Core Curriculum on Tuberculosis: What the Clinician Should Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources for TB Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Centers of Excellence 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publications & Productsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Patient and Public Materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Infection Control & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB in Specific Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Testing & Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccines & Immunizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Guidelinesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Contact Investigations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Control & Elimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Infection Control & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Laboratory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB & HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB in Specific Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Testing & Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccines & Immunizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidelines by Date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Guides & Toolkitsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Aggregate Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC TB Surveillance Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Effective TB Interviewing for Contact Investigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ethnographic Guides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * False-Positive Investigation Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Forging Partnerships to Eliminate TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guide to Application of Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * LTBI: A Guide for Primary Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Testing Products
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Report of Verified Case of Tuberculosis (RVCT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Self-Study Modules
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Contact Investigation Interviewing Skills Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB eDOT Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Understanding the TB Cohort Review Process
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Newslettersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 4, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 3, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 2, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 1, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 6, 2018Â 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 5, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 4, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 3, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 2, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 1, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 5, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 4, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 3, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 2, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 1, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 5, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 4, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 3, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 2, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 1, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pamphlets, Brochures, Bookletsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Questions and Answers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Patient Education Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tuberculosis â Get the Facts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tuberculosis â The Connection between TB and HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 12-Dose Regimen for Latent TB Infection-Patient Education Brochure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Postersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Test Wall Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * World TB Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Think TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stop TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports & Articlesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWRs)_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * DTBE Authored Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tuberculosis Laboratory Aggregate Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Slide Setsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epidemiology of Tuberculosis Among Non-U.S.ââBorn Persons in the United States, 1993â2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Self-Study Modules on Tuberculosis, 1-5 Slide Sets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * The Tuberculosis (TB) in Correctional Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facilitator Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Introduction to TB Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epidemiology of Tuberculosis in Correctional Facilities, United States, 1993-2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevention and Control of Tuberculosis in Correctional and Detention Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidelines for Preventing the Transmission of M. TB in Health care Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Investigation of Contacts of Persons with Infectious TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epidemiology of Pediatric Tuberculosis in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Targeted Tuberculosis Testing and Treatment of Latent Tuberculosis Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Electronic Tools & Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Web-Based Courses & Webinarsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB 101 for Health Care Workersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * TB 101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Interactive Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Program Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Content Syndication
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Social Media Graphics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Customizable Take on TB Infographic with Instructions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Events
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * World TB Dayplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * U.S. TB Championsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2020 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2019 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2018 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2017 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Supporting TB Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Building Partnerships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Expanding Testing and Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Focusing on Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Maximizing Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State TB Control Offices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Usplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mission Statement and Activitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * DTBE Strategic Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * National TB Program Objectives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Organization Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Advisory Groupsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Federal TB Task Force

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about TB Notes Newsletter page, enter your email
address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit





**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

