https://www.cdc.gov/tb/topic/testing/healthcareworkers.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/tb/topic/testing/healthcareworkers.htm    
                Description: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Division of Tuberculosis Elimination    
                Keywords: tuberculosis,  CDC,  tb,  t.b.,  t b,  t.b,  dtbe,  USA,  mycobacterium,  division of tuberculosis elimination,  tb control,  prevention of tb,  what is tb disease,  for patients,  for health professionals,  medical authories,  about tuberculosis,  tb information,  tb exposure,  tb facts,  tb testing,  tests,  diagnosis,  screening,  questions and answers, Tuberculosis (TB)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Tuberculosis (TB)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# TB Screening and Testing of Health Care Personnel

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

![](/tb/topic/images/testinghealthcareworkers.jpg)

Tuberculosis (TB) screening and testing of health care personnel is
recommended as part of a TB Infection Control Plan and might be required by
state regulations. For TB regulations in your area, please contact your state
or local TB control program.

TB screening programs should include anyone working or volunteering in
healthcare settings, including:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * inpatient settings,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * outpatient settings,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * laboratories,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * emergency medical services,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * medical settings in correctional facilities,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * home-based health care and outreach settings,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * long-term care facilities, and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * clinics in homeless shelters.

All U.S. health care personnel should be screened for TB upon hire (i.e.,
preplacement). The local health department should be notified **immediately**
if TB disease is suspected. Annual TB testing of health care personnel is
**not** recommended unless there is a known exposure or ongoing transmission.
Treatment for latent TB infection (LTBI) is strongly encouraged for health
care personnel diagnosed with latent TB infection. Shorter treatment regimens,
including once-weekly isoniazid and rifapentine for 3 months and daily
rifampin for 4 months, should be used as they are more likely to be completed
when compared to the traditional regimens of 6 or 9 months of isoniazid.

CDC and the National TB Controllers Association released updated
recommendations for TB screening, testing, and treatment of health care
personnel on May 17, 2019. These recommendations update the health care
personnel screening and testing section of the 2005 CDC Guidelines for
Preventing the Transmission of _Mycobacterium tuberculosis_ in Health-Care
Settings. CDC has developed supporting resources and tools including:
Frequently Asked Questions and a Baseline Individual TB Risk Assessment
Formpdf icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequency of TB Screening and Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Blood Test 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Skin Test: Two-Step Testing

![BaselineTBScreening-Testing](/tb/topic/testing/images/BaselineTBScreening-
Testing-small.jpg)

**Baseline TB Screening and Testing**

All U.S. health care personnel should be screened for TB upon hire (i.e.,
preplacement). TB screening is a process that includes:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * A baseline individual TB risk assessmentpdf icon,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB symptom evaluation,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * A TB test (e.g., TB blood test or a TB skin test), and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Additional evaluation for TB disease as needed.

Information from the baseline individual TB risk assessmentpdf icon  should be
used to interpret the results of a TB blood test or TB skin test given upon
hire (i.e., preplacement). Health care personnel with a positive TB test
result should receive a symptom evaluation and a chest x-ray to rule out TB
disease. Additional workup may be needed based on those results.

Health care personnel with a documented history of a prior positive TB test
should receive a baseline individual TB risk assessment and TB symptom screen
upon hire (i.e., preplacement). A repeat TB test (e.g., TB blood test or a TB
skin test) is not required.

**Annual Screening, Testing, and Education**

Annual TB testing of health care personnel is **not** recommended unless there
is a known exposure or ongoing transmission at a healthcare facility. Health
care personnel with untreated latent TB infection should receive an annual TB
symptom screen. Symptoms for TB disease include any of the following: a cough
lasting longer than three weeks, unexplained weight loss, night sweats or a
fever, and loss of appetite.

Healthcare facilities might consider using annual TB screening for certain
groups at increased occupational risk for TB exposure (e.g., pulmonologists or
respiratory therapists) or in certain settings if transmission has occurred in
the past (e.g., emergency departments). Facilities should work with their
state and local health departments to help make these decisions.

All health care personnel should receive TB education annually. TB education
should include information on TB risk factors, the signs and symptoms of TB
disease, and TB infection control policies and procedures. TB education
materials can be found through CDC, the TB Centers of Excellence for Training,
Education, and Medical Consultation, NTCAexternal icon, State TB Programs, and
the Find TB Resources website.

**Post-Exposure Screening and Testing**

All health care personnel with a known exposure to TB disease should receive a
TB symptom screen and timely testing, if indicated.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Health care personnel with a previous negative TB test result should be tested immediately and re-tested 8 to 10 weeks after the last known exposure. For consistency, the same type of TB test (e.g., TB blood test or TB skin test) should be used upon hire (i.e., preplacement) and for any follow-up testing.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Health care personnel with a documented history of a positive TB test result do not need to be re-tested after exposure to TB. They should receive a TB symptom screen and if they have symptoms of TB, they should be evaluated for TB disease.

![TB-BloodTest](/tb/topic/testing/images/TB-BloodTest-small.jpg)

**Baseline Testing**

The process for baseline testing using a TB blood test is as follows:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. Administer TB blood test following proper protocol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2. Review result 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Negative -- consider not infected
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Positive -- consider TB infected and evaluate for TB disease*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3. Document result

Using a TB blood test for baseline testing does not require two-step testing.
Additionally, TB blood tests are not affected by the BCG vaccine.

* Note: An individual TB risk assessmentpdf icon should be used to help interpret test results and determine whether health care personnel are at increased risk for TB. Low-risk health care personnel who test positive for TB infection should have a second TB test to confirm the result. For example, health care personnel who do not have any TB symptoms, are unlikely to be infected, and are at low risk for progression to TB disease should receive a second TB test if their first test is positive. If the second test is also positive, the health care personnel is considered to have TB infection and they should be evaluated with a chest x-ray and TB symptom screen.

For more information on TB testing and diagnosis, please refer to the Official
American Thoracic Society/Infectious Diseases Society of America/Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention Clinical Practice Guidelines: Diagnosis of
Tuberculosis in Adults and Children.external icon

![TB-SkinTest](/tb/topic/testing/images/TB-SkinTest-small.jpg)

**Baseline Testing: Two-Step Test**

If the Mantoux tuberculin skin test (TST) is used to test health care
personnel upon hire (preplacement), two-step testing should be used. This is
because some people with latent TB infection have a negative reaction when
tested years after being infected. The first TST may stimulate or boost a
reaction. Positive reactions to subsequent TSTs could be misinterpreted as a
recent infection.

**Step 1**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. Administer first TST following proper protocol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2. Review result 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Positive -- consider TB infected, no second TST needed; evaluate for TB disease.*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Negative -- a second TST is needed. Retest in 1 to 3 weeks after first TST result is read.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3. Document result

**Step 2**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. Administer second TST 1 to 3 weeks after first test
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2. Review results 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Positive -- consider TB infected and evaluate for TB disease.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Negative -- consider person not infected.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3. Document result

** ** **Two-Step TST Testing**

![Two-Step-TST-Testing](/tb/topic/testing/images/Two-Step-TST-Testing.png)  

* Note: An individual TB risk assessmentpdf icon should be used to help interpret test results and determine whether health care personnel are at increased risk for TB. Low-risk health care personnel who test positive for TB infection should have a second TB test to confirm the result. For example, health care personnel who do not have any TB symptoms, are unlikely to be infected, and are at low risk for progression to TB disease should receive a second TB test if their first test is positive. If the second test is also positive, the health care personnel is considered to have TB infection and they should be evaluated with a chest x-ray and TB symptom screen.

For more information on TB testing and diagnosis, please refer to the Official
American Thoracic Society/Infectious Diseases Society of America/Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention Clinical Practice Guidelines: Diagnosis of
Tuberculosis in Adults and Children.external icon

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tuberculosis Screening, Testing, and Treatment of U.S. Health Care Personnel: Recommendations from the National Tuberculosis Controllers Association and CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Infection Control 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Screening, Testing, and Treatment of U.S. Health Care Personnel: Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Infographic: Updated Recommendations for Tuberculosis TB- Screening, Testing, and Treatmentpdf icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Medscape CDC Expert Commentary: Updated Tuberculosis Guidelines for Healthcare Workersexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Whiteboard video: Updated TB Testing and Treatment Recommendations for Health Care Personnel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Dear Colleague Letter: May 16, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tuberculosis among healthcare personnel, United States, 2010-2016external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidelines for preventing the transmission of _Mycobacterium tuberculosi_ s in health-care settings, 2005pdf icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State TB Control Offices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Testing and Diagnosis Fact sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Testing and Diagnosis Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Using the Isoniazid/Rifapentine Regimen to Treat Latent Tuberculosis Infection (LTBI)external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Questions and Answers About TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC Info
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National TB Controllers Associationexternal icon

Page last reviewed: May 16, 2019

Content source: Division of Tuberculosis Elimination

home Tuberculosis

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Basic TB Factsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How TB Spreads
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Latent TB Infection and TB Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Risk Factors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Exposure to TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB & HIV Coinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB and Diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Terms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Personal Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kristi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Laura
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kelcie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tenzin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mildred
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Shaka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kelly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kim
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emily
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jerry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nauman
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nicole
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Thomas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Natalie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Esteban and Danielle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Deo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kenni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Rosalie and Faith
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Rick and Francene
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Santos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mabruka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Liliana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Martha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sarah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Testing & Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Who Should be Tested
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Testing for TB Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Testing in BCG-Vaccinated Persons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Screening and Testing of Health Care Personnel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Testing During Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diagnosing latent TB infection and TB disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Deciding When to Treat Latent TB Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment Regimens for Latent TB Infection (LTBI)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment for TB Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Adverse Events
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Treatment of Persons Living with HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Treatment and Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Treatment for Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Epidemiologic Studies Consortiumplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Research Projects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Trials Consortiumplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Study Descriptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Background
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Behavioral & Social Science Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Health Care Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Infection Control in Health Care Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources for TB Screening and Testing of Health Care Personnelplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB in Specific Populationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * African-American Communityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stop TB in the African-American Community Summit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Background
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Slideset
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Asian Community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Correctional Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Homelessness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * International Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory Informationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Drug Susceptibility Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * False-Positive Investigation Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Interim Laboratory Biosafety Guidance for XDR _Mycobacterium_ tuberculosis strains
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Model Performance Evaluation Program (MPEP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Rapid Molecular Testing to Detect Drug-Resistant TB in the USplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Executive Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Introduction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Background on Tests for Molecular Detection of DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General Considerations and Principles for a Molecular DR Testing Service
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Possible Scenarios and Scope of Testing for a Molecular DR Testing Service
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Research Needs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General Recommendations of the Expert Panel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Communication Plan for the Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * References
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Panel Members and CDC Participants
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Appendix 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Appendix 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Appendix 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Uses of Nucleic Acid Amplification Tests for the Diagnosis of TBplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General Considerations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General Recommendations of the Expert Panel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Recommendations to ACET, CDC, DTBE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Incidence in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reported TB in the US, 2018 Surveillance Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Trends in Tuberculosis 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tuberculosis in the United States, 2018 (Slide Set)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archived Surveillance Reports and Slide Sets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 2018 State and City Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archived State and City Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Professional Resources & Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tools for Healthcare Providersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Interactive Core Curriculum on Tuberculosis: What the Clinician Should Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources for TB Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Centers of Excellence 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publications & Productsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Patient and Public Materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Infection Control & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB in Specific Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Testing & Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccines & Immunizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Guidelinesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Contact Investigations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Control & Elimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Infection Control & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Laboratory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB & HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB in Specific Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Testing & Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccines & Immunizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidelines by Date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Guides & Toolkitsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Aggregate Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC TB Surveillance Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Effective TB Interviewing for Contact Investigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ethnographic Guides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * False-Positive Investigation Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Forging Partnerships to Eliminate TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guide to Application of Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * LTBI: A Guide for Primary Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Testing Products
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Report of Verified Case of Tuberculosis (RVCT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Self-Study Modules
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Contact Investigation Interviewing Skills Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB eDOT Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Understanding the TB Cohort Review Process
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Newslettersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 4, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 3, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 2, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 1, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 6, 2018Â 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 5, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 4, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 3, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 2, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 1, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 5, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 4, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 3, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 2, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 1, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 5, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 4, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 3, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 2, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 1, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pamphlets, Brochures, Bookletsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Questions and Answers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Patient Education Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tuberculosis â Get the Facts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tuberculosis â The Connection between TB and HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 12-Dose Regimen for Latent TB Infection-Patient Education Brochure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Postersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Test Wall Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * World TB Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Think TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stop TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports & Articlesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWRs)_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * DTBE Authored Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tuberculosis Laboratory Aggregate Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Slide Setsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epidemiology of Tuberculosis Among Non-U.S.ââBorn Persons in the United States, 1993â2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Self-Study Modules on Tuberculosis, 1-5 Slide Sets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * The Tuberculosis (TB) in Correctional Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facilitator Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Introduction to TB Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epidemiology of Tuberculosis in Correctional Facilities, United States, 1993-2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevention and Control of Tuberculosis in Correctional and Detention Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidelines for Preventing the Transmission of M. TB in Health care Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Investigation of Contacts of Persons with Infectious TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epidemiology of Pediatric Tuberculosis in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Targeted Tuberculosis Testing and Treatment of Latent Tuberculosis Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Electronic Tools & Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Web-Based Courses & Webinarsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB 101 for Health Care Workersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * TB 101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Interactive Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Program Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Content Syndication
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Social Media Graphics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Customizable Take on TB Infographic with Instructions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Events
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * World TB Dayplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * U.S. TB Championsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2020 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2019 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2018 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2017 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Supporting TB Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Building Partnerships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Expanding Testing and Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Focusing on Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Maximizing Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State TB Control Offices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Usplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mission Statement and Activitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * DTBE Strategic Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * National TB Program Objectives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Organization Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Advisory Groupsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Federal TB Task Force

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

