http://www.cdc.gov/az/azfaq.html#whatisLink: http://www.cdc.gov/az/azfaq.html#whatis    
                Description: he CDC A-Z Index is a navigational and informational tool that makes the CDC.gov Web site easier to use. It helps you quickly find and retrieve specific information. The A-Z index is structured so that synonyms, acronyms, and cross-referencing provide multiple ways for you to access the topics and features on CDC.gov. The index includes common and scientific terms to meet the needs of consumers as well as health professionals.    
                Keywords: FAQ, frequently asked questions, CDC A-Z index, CDC.gov web site, synonyms, acronyms, diseases, conditions, public health terms, scientific terms, a to z indices, popular topics, CDC About    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

CDC A-Z Index

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

# A-Z FAQ

Minus

Related Pages

### What is the A-Z Index?

The CDC A-Z Index is a navigational and informational tool that makes the
CDC.gov Web site easier to use. It helps you quickly find and retrieve
specific information. The A-Z index is structured so that synonyms, acronyms,
and cross-referencing provide multiple ways for you to access the topics and
features on CDC.gov. The index includes common and scientific terms to meet
the needs of consumers as well as health professionals.

### What items are included?

The CDC A-Z Index lists topics with relevance to a broad cross-section of
CDC.gov's audiences. The items are representative of popular topics, frequent
inquiries, or have critical importance to CDC's public health mission. The
index will continue to evolve as additional topics are added.

### Why is there more than one A-Z Index?

The Diseases and Conditions A-Z index is a subset of the main A-Z list. This
secondary list was created to make it easier to find information within a
large, popular category. A number of sites within the CDC family of Web sites
already have their own self-contained A-Z Indices. In the future, we expect to
integrate these indices and develop additional sub-level indices for different
components of the CDC family of Web sites.

### How do I find CDC organization and program sites?

CDC organization information is available from CDC Organization. Program
information can be accessed from the different organization sites, or via
CDC's search engine.

### Can I suggest a topic?

Enter suggested topic:

Form Validation

protected by **reCAPTCHA**

Privacy \-  Terms

Submit Clear Form

Page last reviewed: November 20, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home CDC Home

                    * Diseases & Conditions
                    * Healthy Living
                    * Travelersâ Health
                    * Emergency Preparedness
                    * Injury, Violence & Safety
                    * Environmental Health
                    * Workplace Safety & Health
                    * Global Health
                    * State, Tribal, Local & Territorial
                    * Data & Statistics
                    * Vital Signs
                    * Feature Archive
                    * Tools & Resources
                    * Disease of the Week
                    * Publications
                    * Mobile apps
                    * CDC â TV
                    * Jobs

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

