https://www.cdc.gov/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_19/tbnotes-1.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_19/tbnotes-1.htm    
                Description: TB Notes 1, 2019, Newsletters, Publications &amp; Products, TB, CDC    
                Keywords: tuberculosis,  CDC,  tb,  t.b.,  t b,  t.b,  dtbe,  USA,  mycobacterium,  division of tuberculosis elimination,  TB Notes 1,  2019,  Newsletters, TB and HIV Coinfection, Tuberculosis Vaccine (BCG), Tuberculosis (TB), TB Testing &amp; Diagnosis, TB Education and Training Network    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Tuberculosis (TB)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# TB NOTES

Minus

Related Pages

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_19/images/banner.png)

**TB Notes  1, 2019**

### Notes from the Director

Dear Colleague:

One of the most important events for people working in tuberculosis (TB)
elimination is World TB Day. World TB Day is observed annually on March 24, to
commemorate Dr. Robert Koch's announcement of his discovery of _Mycobacterium
tuberculosis_ , the bacillus that causes TB. On March 24, and the days leading
up to it, CDC and many others shared successes in TB prevention and control,
and raised awareness of the challenges that hinder our progress toward the
elimination of this devastating disease.

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_19/images/phil.jpg)

A total of 9,029 TB cases were reported in the United States in 2018 according
to preliminary data from the CDC National TB Surveillance System. This is the
lowest case count on record and corresponds with a TB rate of 2.8 per 100,000
persons, a rate 1.3% lower than reported in 2017. This decrease is consistent
with the modest decline seen over the past several years; however, the current
level of progress remains insufficient to eliminate TB in the United States in
this century.

On March 27th, I had the honor to present at the annual World TB Day
congressional briefing in Washington, D.C., which is hosted by the American
Thoracic Society, RESULTS, the National TB Controllers Association, and
Treatment Action group in cooperation with the U.S. House of Representatives
TB Elimination Caucus.  I presented an update about U.S. TB burden, and what
is needed to move the United States closer to the goal of TB elimination.

Achieving TB elimination will also require the continued hard work and
dedication from those working at the state and local levels, including TB
control programs and healthcare providers who are working to end TB in their
communities. One of the goals of this year's CDC World TB Day campaign was to
highlight this great work through the 2019 CDC TB Elimination Champions
project. In keeping with this year's World TB Day theme "It's Time!" we
highlighted photos from organizations and individuals that represent their
work and commitment to the "It's Time to End TB!" mission. We encourage you to
read their stories and share their photos with your partners and colleagues.

Thank you for your work and commitment to eliminate TB in the United States.

Philip LoBue, MD, FACP, FCCP  
Director

Division of Tuberculosis Elimination  
National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention

Open All Close All

Communications, Education, and Behavioral Studies Branch Updates

**World TB Day Activities**

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_19/images/tbec-small.jpg)

"It's Time!" to take a look back on all the great activities during World TB
Day 2019!

**CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions Project** : For the past 4 years, the CDC
U.S. TB Elimination Champions Project has provided an opportunity to recognize
accomplishments and learn best practices from people who are making a
significant contribution to preventing and controlling TB in the United
States.

In keeping with the 2019 U.S. World TB Day theme "It's Time!," this year we
issued a call for photo submissions from organizations or individuals that
represent their work and commitment to the "It's Time to End TB!" mission.

We were pleased to recognize 9 organizations and individuals working to end TB
in their communities!

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Florida Department of Health, Duval County
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Kate O'Brien, We Are TB, TB Survivor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laura Smock, MPH, Massachusetts Department of Public Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Majuro, Republic of the Marshall Islands TB Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Daria Szkwarko, DO, MPH, Assistant Professor, Brown University
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Monroe County, New York, Department of Public Health TB Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Neha Shah, MD, MPH, Project Director, TB Free California
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Dr. Greg Stern, Health Officer for Whatcom County Public Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * We Are TB, TB Survivor Network

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_19/images/wertb-small.jpg)

**  
World TB Day Social Media Photo Challenge** : This year we encouraged our TB
partners and audiences to share their own "It's Time" message. Participants
could download a template, write their World TB Day message, take a picture,
and post on Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram. It was great seeing so many
people share their TB messages. Thank you to everyone who participated!

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_19/images/lite-small.jpg)



**Lighting Up CDC in Red for World TB Day:** This year on World TB Day the
Stop TB Partnership launched a global challenge "Light up the World for TB".
TB partners were challenged to work with authorities in cities across the
world to light up their landmarks in red to show their commitment towards
ending TB. CDC participated by lighting in red the CDC Roybal campus main
entrance on March 25th.





![umbrella](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_19/images/umb-small.jpg)

**World TB Day Twitter Storm** : CDC's #WorldTBDay Twitter Storm was Friday,
March 22nd. We invited participants to tweet their own content and images
related to specific TB messages at the appropriate time. Messages included:

• It's time to speak up.

• It's time we strengthen TB education and awareness.

• It's time to share TB stories.

• It's time to test and treat latent TB infection.

• It's time to end stigma.

• It's time to end TB.

**#WorldTBDay Instagram Takeover:** For the second year in a row, TB took over
@CDCgov Instagram and posted all TB content, all day! Posts featured TB
survivors, TB social media photo challenge, and TB Elimination Champions.

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_19/images/itsTime-small.png)

**World TB Day Personal Stories:** In December 2018, CEBSB and contract staff
filmed four TB survivors as part of the ongoing TB Personal Stories series. In
addition to filming their individual stories, we also produced six short World
TB Day videos. Each survivor highlighted a World TB Day message that resonated
with them and their TB experience, such as the need to strengthen TB education
and awareness among health care providers, encouraging increased latent TB
infection testing and treatment, and fighting the stigma that still surrounds
TB.

**Digital Signage Display:** World TB Day activity announcements and videos
were shown on the digital signage displays on all floors of DTBE's Atlanta
campus.

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_19/images/tbEvent-small.jpg)

**World TB Day Event:** DTBE and the Division of Global HIV & TB co-hosted a
World TB Day event on March 25th. CDC leadership and TB subject-matter experts
offered updates and comments, and CEBSB premiered World TB Day Personal
Stories video. Fun interactive activities included block printing,
participation in the It's Time social media campaign, a TB doses guessing
game, and a TB Quiz!

**World TB Day Activities Map:** World TB Day observances happened all around
the United States and beyond. This year our activity map featured over 29
World TB Day activities taking place in 16 states and U.S. Territories, and 4
international events from 3 countries. Thank you to everyone who added their
activity!

Surveillance, Epidemiology, & Outbreak Investigations Branch Updates

 **Preliminary TB Surveillance Data for 2018**

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_19/images/cases-small.jpg)

In recognition of World TB Day, DTBE has published preliminary TB surveillance
data for 2018, documenting 9,029 new cases of TB in the United States in 2018.
This is the lowest case count on record and corresponds with a TB rate of 2.8
per 100,000 persons, a rate 1.3% lower than reported in 2017. This decrease is
consistent with the modest decline seen over the past several years; however,
the current level of progress remains insufficient to eliminate TB in the
United States in this century. Eliminating TB in the United States will
require a concerted effort to enhance surveillance, detection, and treatment
for latent TB infection among populations at increased risk. Treatment of
latent TB infection is essential to controlling and eliminating TB in the
United States because it substantially reduces the risk that latent TB
infection will progress to TB disease.

**Introducing STEMS, a Free Resource for LTBI and TB Case Management**

The Surveillance for Tuberculosis Elimination Management System (STEMS) is a
free web-based application to help state and local health departments manage
persons with latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI) and tuberculosis disease
(TB). If your health jurisdiction is interested in STEMS, please contact
STEMS@cdc.gov for information about how to access the application.  For more
information please see the STEMS page on the CDC website or visit the STEMS
table at the National TB Controller's Association National TB Conference April
23-26, 2019, Atlanta, GA.

Data Management, Statistics, and Evaluation Branch Updates

 **2017 State and City Tuberculosis Report**

The _2017 State and City Tuberculosis Report_ is now available. This report
publishes key process and outcomes measures for TB control programs in the
United States to evaluate progress towards TB elimination.

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_19/images/cityRpt-small.jpg)

CDC selected the measures used in the report, in cooperation with partners in
state and local health departments. The measures cover a wide range of
important TB topics, including TB incidence, treatment completion for TB
disease, known-HIV status, and treatment initiation and completion for
contacts diagnosed with latent TB infection.

These data can help TB control programs:

• evaluate progress in TB prevention and control,

• monitor TB program performance,

• assess needs for education and technical assistance, and

• identify areas that need improvement.



Data for calculating these indicators come from the National TB Surveillance
System and the Aggregate Reports for Program Evaluation.

Laboratory Branch Updates

New and updated tuberculosis (TB) testing resources were released in 2018 for
laboratorians and healthcare professionals to include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI) 2nd Edition M48: _Laboratory Detection and Identification of Mycobacteria_ --This edition focuses on a consensus guideline for an optimal approach to diagnose mycobacterial infections as well as for specimen processing, direct detection, culture, and identification of mycobacteria, primarily _Mycobacterium tuberculosis_ complex (MTBC). For additional information, visit the Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute websiteExternal.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_19/images/m24.png)

The CLSI 3rd Edition M24: _Susceptibility Testing of Mycobacteria,_ Nocardia
_spp., and Other Aerobic Actinomycetes_ --This edition includes
recommendations for selecting agents for first-line and second-line drug
susceptibility testing (DST), organism group-specific methodologies, reporting
recommendations, and quality control criteria. For additional information,
visit the Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute websiteExternal.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The CLSI M62: _Performance Standards for Susceptibility Testing of Mycobacteria,_ Nocardia _spp., and Other Aerobic Actinomycetes_ , as a supplement to the CLSI 3rd Edition M24 document. The supplement includes minimal inhibitory concentrations and quality control ranges developed following the standards described in CLSI document M24. For additional information, visit the Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute website __External _._
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The World Health Organization (WHO) released the _Technical Report on Critical Concentrations for Drug Susceptibility Testing of Medicines Used in the Treatment of Drug-Resistant Tuberculosis External_. This document provides revised and new breakpoints for DST and emphasizes the need for more standardized DST protocols.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * WHO also released _The Use of Next-Generation Sequencing Technologies for the Detection of Mutations Associated with Drug Resistance in Mycobacterium tuberculosis Complex: Technical Guide Cdc-pdfExternal_. This document includes general workflows for next-generation sequencing (NGS), descriptions of instruments and NGS technologies, resistance mutations data, and describes the necessary infrastructure to perform NGS.

Clinical Research Branch Updates

 **Congratulations to Dr. Andrew Vernon: Recipient of The Union-North American
Region (NAR) Lifetime Achievement Award**

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_19/images/av-small.jpg)

Each year, The Union-North American Region recognizes the valuable
contributions of our colleagues working in the field of tuberculosis control
and prevention.  This is the highest award of the region.  It is given to an
individual who has made outstanding contributions to the field of TB over a
lifetime. This year's recipient is Dr. Andrew Anthony Vernon.

Dr. Vernon first joined the U.S. Centers for Disease Control (CDC) in 1978,
serving as an Epidemic Intelligence Service Officer from 1978 to 1980 and as
Medical Epidemiologist in 1980-81. From 1981 to 1987, he completed his medical
residency and fellowship, then served as an attending physician at Johns
Hopkins Hospital, working on multiple HIV-related projects with Drs. John
Bartlett and Frank Polk. He returned to CDC in 1987, taking an assignment as a
Medical Epidemiologist in Kinshasa, Zaire, to work with child survival
programs. In 1990 he returned to Atlanta to serve as Assistant Director for
Science and then Director of the Technical Support Division in the
International Health Program Office. In 1993-95 he was Field Epidemiologist
with the TB Control Program in the state of Georgia. He moved in 1995 to the
Clinical Research Branch, Division of Tuberculosis Elimination (DTBE), where
he coordinated DTBE's revived engagement in TB Clinical Trials and guided the
conduct of USPHS Study 22.   From 2002-2004 he served as Associate Director
for Science (ADS) in the National Center for HIV, STD, and TB Prevention.
Since 2004 he has been Chief of the Clinical Research Branch.

In 1998, the Study 22 trial leadership reorganized to create the Tuberculosis
Trials Consortium, or TBTC; Dr. Vernon served as the first CDC co-chair. The
TBTC is a collaboration of clinical researchers from academic and Veterans
Affairs medical centers, and from public health departments, both within and
outside the United States, whose mission is the conduct of programmatically
relevant research in TB prevention and control. After returning as Branch
chief in 2004, Dr Vernon continued to lead the TBTC and to advocate for the
role of clinical trials in the service of public health science. He served for
30 years in the US Public Health Service's Commissioned Corps, joining the
Civil Service in 2014 after compulsory Corps retirement.

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_19/images/avj-small.jpg)

The care and treatment of patients affected by TB has significantly improved
through Dr. Vernon's guidance of TBTC, and diligent pursuit of
programmatically relevant research. His collaborative nature and keen sense of
scientific rigor have been instrumental to TBTC's engagement in studies that
have strengthened the influence of science on program. TBTC work has
influenced TB guidelines, provided a clearer focus on the parameters of
successful treatment of TB disease and LTBI, emphasized the importance of drug
pharmacokinetics, and highlighted the crucial role of individual patient
management.

Dr. Vernon's work towards TB elimination was not limited to TBTC. From 2001 to
2007, Andy served as Chair of The Union's Clinical Trials Steering Committee.
Between 2007 and 2016, he served as an Associate Editor for the International
Journal of TB and Lung Disease. He was an active member of the World Health
Organization's Task Force on New TB Drug Policy Development from 2012 to 2018,
and has served on multiple guideline development committees in the past two
decades.

Dr. Vernon's capacity to recognize how a concept may be translated to the
benefit of patients affected by TB, his approachable style, and his mentorship
have helped his peers enhance their efforts to curb TB, and enabled younger
colleagues to build the knowledge and skills needed to become the next
generation of investigators to further improve TB care and treatment.

It is for these highlighted actions, as well as his many contributions to the
TB scientific knowledge base, that we recognize Dr. Andrew Vernon with the
2019 Lifetime Achievement Award of the Union-North American Region.

**TB Trials Consortium Updates**

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_19/images/tbtc.jpg)

TBTC Study 37: Assessment of the Safety, Tolerability, and Effectiveness of
Rifapentine Given Daily for LTBI (ASTERoiD) (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier:
NCT03474029) tests a shorter, simpler latent TB infection regimen. It is being
conducted in collaboration with CDC's TB Epidemiologic Studies Consortium
(TBESC) and with the UK Medical Research Council, and is expected to begin
enrolling in the second quarter of 2019, following a lengthy administrative
delay. The trial aims to compare a 6-week regimen of daily self-administered
rifapentine with 2 or 3 rifamycin-based comparator regimens (3HP, 4R, 3HR),
for the treatment of drug-sensitive latent TB infection. It seeks to enroll at
least 3,400 persons.

TBTC Study 35: Phase I/II Dose Finding and Safety Study of Rifapentine and
Isoniazid in HIV-Infected and HIV-Uninfected Children with Latent Tuberculosis
Infection (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT03730181) also aims to open in
the first half of 2019. Study 35 will evaluate tolerability and
pharmacokinetics of a new child-friendly formulation of isoniazid and
rifapentine in children aged 0-12 years, at 2 sites in South Africa. It will
enroll about 72 participants.

TBTC Study 32: Efficacy and Safety of Levofloxacin for the Treatment of MDR-TB
( **Opti-Q** ) (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT01918397) was conducted in
collaboration with Boston University and support from NIAID's Division of
Microbiology and Infectious Disease. Study 32 enrolled 111 participants at 3
sites in Lima and South Africa. CDC will complete final laboratory testing
this year, to be followed with reporting of study results.

TBTC Study 31/ACTG A5349: Rifapentine-containing Tuberculosis Treatment
Shortening Regimens (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02410772) completed
enrollment of 2,516 participants in October 2018; results are expected in the
first half of 2020. This large phase 3 trial has been a successful
collaboration between CDC's TBTC and NIAID/Division of AIDS' Adult AIDS
Clinical Trials Group (ACTG). Several significant sub-studies are nested
within the trial, which is expected to provide substantial information on drug
pharmacokinetics, on biomarkers, and on adherence effects.

The 43rd TBTC semi-annual meeting will take place May 14-16, 2019 in Atlanta.
Discussion there will address planning for prospective new trials involving
novel agents and novel approaches the treatment of active and latent TB.

New CDC Publications

Aboukheir MK, Alvarado-Ramy F, Fernandez Vazquez M, Joglar O. Notes from the
Field: Tuberculosis Control in the Aftermath of Hurricane Maria - Puerto Rico,
2017. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep.External 2019 Jan 18;68(2):46-47. doi:
10.15585/mmwr.mm6802a6. PMID: 30653488.

Agizew T, Boyd R, Auld AF, Payton L, Pals SL, Lekone P, Chihota V, Finlay A.
Treatment outcomes, diagnostic and therapeutic impact: Xpert vs. smear. A
systematic review and meta-analysis.External Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2019 Jan
1;23(1):82-92. doi: 10.5588/ijtld.18.0203. PMID:30674379.

Bardenheier BH, Pavkov ME, Winston CA, Klosovsky A, Yen C, Benoit S,
Gravenstein S, Posey DL, Phares CR. Prevalence of Tuberculosis Disease Among
Adult US-Bound Refugees with Chronic Kidney Disease.External J Immigr Minor
Health. 2019 Jan 5. doi: 10.1007/s10903-018-00852-8. [Epub ahead of print].
PMID: 30612283.

Belanger A, Morris SB, Brostrom R, Yost D, Goswami N, Oxtoby M, Moore M,
Westenhouse J, Barry PM, Shah NS. Introduction and evaluation of multidrug-
resistant tuberculosis supplemental surveillance in the United States. J Clin
Tuberc Other Mycobact Dis. 2019;15:100090.

Lo TQ, Matlhare L, Mugisha K, Lere TD, Ho-Foster A, Boyd R, Cavanaugh J, Ncube
R, Steenhoff AP, Arscott-Mills T. Initiation of anti-tuberculosis treatment in
children following gastric aspirate testing, Botswana, 2008-2012.External Int
J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2019 Mar 1;23(3):315-321. doi: 10.5588/ijtld.18.0404. PMID:
30871662.

Marks SM, Katz DJ, Davidow AL, Pagaoa MA, Teeter LD, Graviss EA. The Impact of
HIV Infection on TB Disparities Among US-Born Black and White Tuberculosis
Patients in the United States.External J Public Health Manag Pract. 2019 Feb
14. doi: 10.1097/PHH.0000000000000949. [Epub ahead of print]. PMID:30789591.

Nwana N, Marks SM, Lan E, Chang AH, Holcombe M, Morris SB. Treatment of latent
Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection with 12 once weekly directly-observed
doses of isoniazid and rifapentine among persons experiencing
homelessness.External PLoS One. 2019 Mar 13;14(3):e0213524. doi:
10.1371/journal.pone.0213524. eCollection 2019. PMID: 30865724.

Schmit KM, Brostrom R, Largen A, Pyan A, Wang Z, Mase S, Morris S. Higher
Rates of Tuberculosis Among Class B1 Filipino Immigrants to Hawaii Compared to
Nationwide, 2010-2014.External J Immigr Minor Health. 2019. Feb 26. doi:
10.1007/s10903-019-00855-z. [Epub ahead of print] PMID: 30806953.

Tornheim JA, Starks AM, Rodwell TC, Gardy JL, Walker TM, Cirillo DM,
Jayashankar L, Miotto P, Zignol M, Schito M. Building the framework for
standardized clinical laboratory reporting of next generation sequencing data
for resistance-associated mutations in Mycobacterium tuberculosis
complex.External Clin Infect Dis. 2019 Mar 18. pii: ciz219. doi:
10.1093/cid/ciz219. [Epub ahead of print]. PMID: 30883637.

Page last reviewed: April 1, 2019

Content source: Division of Tuberculosis Elimination

home Tuberculosis

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Basic TB Factsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How TB Spreads
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Latent TB Infection and TB Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Risk Factors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Exposure to TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB & HIV Coinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB and Diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Terms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Personal Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kristi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Laura
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kelcie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tenzin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mildred
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Shaka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kelly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kim
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emily
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jerry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nauman
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nicole
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Thomas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Natalie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Esteban and Danielle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Deo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kenni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Rosalie and Faith
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Rick and Francene
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Santos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mabruka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Liliana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Martha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sarah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Testing & Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Who Should be Tested
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Testing for TB Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Testing in BCG-Vaccinated Persons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Screening and Testing of Health Care Personnel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Testing During Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diagnosing latent TB infection and TB disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Deciding When to Treat Latent TB Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment Regimens for Latent TB Infection (LTBI)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment for TB Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Adverse Events
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Treatment of Persons Living with HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Treatment and Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Treatment for Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Epidemiologic Studies Consortiumplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Research Projects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Trials Consortiumplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Study Descriptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Background
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Behavioral & Social Science Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Health Care Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Infection Control in Health Care Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources for TB Screening and Testing of Health Care Personnelplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB in Specific Populationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * African-American Communityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stop TB in the African-American Community Summit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Background
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Slideset
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Asian Community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Correctional Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Homelessness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * International Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory Informationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Drug Susceptibility Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * False-Positive Investigation Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Interim Laboratory Biosafety Guidance for XDR _Mycobacterium_ tuberculosis strains
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Model Performance Evaluation Program (MPEP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Rapid Molecular Testing to Detect Drug-Resistant TB in the USplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Executive Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Introduction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Background on Tests for Molecular Detection of DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General Considerations and Principles for a Molecular DR Testing Service
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Possible Scenarios and Scope of Testing for a Molecular DR Testing Service
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Research Needs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General Recommendations of the Expert Panel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Communication Plan for the Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * References
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Panel Members and CDC Participants
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Appendix 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Appendix 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Appendix 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Uses of Nucleic Acid Amplification Tests for the Diagnosis of TBplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General Considerations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General Recommendations of the Expert Panel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Recommendations to ACET, CDC, DTBE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Incidence in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reported TB in the US, 2018 Surveillance Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Trends in Tuberculosis 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tuberculosis in the United States, 2018 (Slide Set)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archived Surveillance Reports and Slide Sets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 2018 State and City Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archived State and City Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Professional Resources & Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tools for Healthcare Providersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Interactive Core Curriculum on Tuberculosis: What the Clinician Should Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources for TB Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Centers of Excellence 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publications & Productsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Patient and Public Materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Infection Control & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB in Specific Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Testing & Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccines & Immunizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Guidelinesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Contact Investigations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Control & Elimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Infection Control & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Laboratory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB & HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB in Specific Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Testing & Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccines & Immunizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidelines by Date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Guides & Toolkitsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Aggregate Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC TB Surveillance Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Effective TB Interviewing for Contact Investigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ethnographic Guides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * False-Positive Investigation Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Forging Partnerships to Eliminate TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guide to Application of Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * LTBI: A Guide for Primary Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Testing Products
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Report of Verified Case of Tuberculosis (RVCT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Self-Study Modules
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Contact Investigation Interviewing Skills Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB eDOT Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Understanding the TB Cohort Review Process
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Newslettersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 4, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 3, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 2, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 1, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 6, 2018Â 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 5, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 4, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 3, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 2, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 1, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 5, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 4, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 3, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 2, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 1, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 5, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 4, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 3, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 2, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 1, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pamphlets, Brochures, Bookletsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Questions and Answers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Patient Education Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tuberculosis â Get the Facts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tuberculosis â The Connection between TB and HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 12-Dose Regimen for Latent TB Infection-Patient Education Brochure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Postersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Test Wall Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * World TB Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Think TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stop TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports & Articlesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWRs)_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * DTBE Authored Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tuberculosis Laboratory Aggregate Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Slide Setsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epidemiology of Tuberculosis Among Non-U.S.ââBorn Persons in the United States, 1993â2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Self-Study Modules on Tuberculosis, 1-5 Slide Sets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * The Tuberculosis (TB) in Correctional Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facilitator Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Introduction to TB Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epidemiology of Tuberculosis in Correctional Facilities, United States, 1993-2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevention and Control of Tuberculosis in Correctional and Detention Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidelines for Preventing the Transmission of M. TB in Health care Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Investigation of Contacts of Persons with Infectious TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epidemiology of Pediatric Tuberculosis in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Targeted Tuberculosis Testing and Treatment of Latent Tuberculosis Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Electronic Tools & Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Web-Based Courses & Webinarsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB 101 for Health Care Workersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * TB 101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Interactive Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Program Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Content Syndication
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Social Media Graphics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Customizable Take on TB Infographic with Instructions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Events
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * World TB Dayplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * U.S. TB Championsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2020 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2019 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2018 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2017 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Supporting TB Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Building Partnerships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Expanding Testing and Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Focusing on Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Maximizing Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State TB Control Offices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Usplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mission Statement and Activitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * DTBE Strategic Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * National TB Program Objectives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Organization Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Advisory Groupsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Federal TB Task Force

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about TB Notes Newsletter page, enter your email
address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit





**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

