https://www.cdc.gov/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_17/tbnotes-1.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_17/tbnotes-1.htm    
                Description: TB Notes contains news about the Division of Tuberculosis Eliminationâs activities and highlights from state and local TB programs across the country.  TB Notes 1, 2017.  Provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)    
                Keywords: tb,  tuberculosis,  CDC,  publications,  products,  newsletters,  TB Notes,  state,  local,  2017, TB and HIV Coinfection, Tuberculosis Vaccine (BCG), Tuberculosis (TB), TB Testing &amp; Diagnosis, TB Education and Training Network    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Tuberculosis (TB)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# TB NOTES

Minus

Related Pages

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_16/images/tbnotes-header.jpg)

**TB Notes 1** **2017**

### Notes from the Director

Dear Colleague:

Welcome to a new year and new opportunities to prevent, control, and work
toward the elimination of tuberculosis.  This time of year, the Division of
Tuberculosis Elimination (DTBE) participates in two important annual events
that raise awareness and advance our efforts of TB prevention and control.

Many DTBE staff presented at the 2017 Annual Conference of the International
Union Against Tuberculosis and Lung Disease - North American Regionexternal
icon in Vancouver, Canada.  A full list of authors and presentation titles is
included in this issue.

At the end of March, we will observe one of the most important annual events
for people working in TB control, World TB Day. For the second year, CDC will
join the global Stop TB Partnership in adopting the 2017 World TB Day theme
"Unite to End TB _._ " _  _ The DTBE World TB Day Website has resources and
materials to help in your own efforts to raise awareness. Partners planning a
World TB Day event can add activities to an online map.

We welcome these opportunities, and others throughout the TB community, to
continue our work of TB prevention and control in 2017.

Philip LoBue, MD, FACP, FCCP  
Director,  
Division of Tuberculosis Elimination  
National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention

Open All Close All

Highlights from State and Local Programs

####  **Calling All TB Corrections Liaisons!**

Are you a TB Corrections Liaison or does your TB work take you into
correctional facilities?  Want to learn more about controlling TB within
correctional settings?  If so, join the Corrections Liaison Partnership
Workgroup (CLPW).  The CLPW meets quarterly by conference call to discuss
challenges and best practices for addressing TB in correctional settings.  All
who have an interest in controlling TB behind bars are welcome to join -
including corrections staff (medical, administration, custody, and
classification), public health staff, and others, especially those who fill
the role of Corrections Liaison within their TB program.

This committee seeks to strengthen collaboration and communication between
public health programs and those who work in corrections.  These quarterly
calls include case discussions surrounding all the aspects of controlling TB
within the confines of jails, prisons, detention centers, and other congregate
corrections facilities.  Issues of infection control, isolation, testing,
employee health, and managing cases and outbreaks are often discussed, with a
focus on understanding the culture of corrections and how best to work within
strict security rules.  Topics also include coordination of inmate releases to
the community and safe transfers between facilities.   As a reference, we
often refer to the _TB Core Competencies for Public Health Corrections
Liaisons_ which is available on the National Tuberculosis Controllers
Association (NTCA) websiteexternal icon. Our workgroup participants have
varying levels of expertise and work experience which means our brainstorming
sessions produce lively conversation and valuable tips to address challenges.
Main goals include fostering collaboration between public health and
corrections, and facilitating open communication between all agencies
involved.

The CLPW is a subcommittee of the NTCA/ National Tuberculosis Nurse Coalition
(NTNC) Corrections Committee.  The NTCA/NTNC Corrections Committee's mission
is to raise the awareness for public health and corrections regarding TB
within this setting.  The CWLP is currently led by Ellen Murray, PhD, BSN, RN,
a former Infection Control Coordinator in a large county jail (5,700 inmates),
and a former State TB Nurse Consultant.

To join our next call on April 25, 2017, please contact Ellen Murray at
ellen.murray@medicine.ufl.edu or 352-273-9385.

_  Submitted by Ellen Murray, PhD, BSN, RN, Southeastern National Tuberculosis
Center_



#### **DTBE Staff Present at the 2017 Annual Conference of the International
Union against Tuberculosis and Lung Disease - North American Region**

The **** 2017 Annual Conference of the International Union against
Tuberculosis and Lung Disease - North American Region was held this month in
Vancouver, Canada. DTBE contributed to the program by delivering the following
presentations:

**Evaluation of the TB Regional Training and Medical Consultation Centers**  
Sarah Segerlind  

**Developing a Toolkit for TB Programs to implement eDOT**  
Peri Hopkins

**Outcomes and Cost for Multidrug-Resistant Tuberculosis Outpatient-Only Care
in the U.S**  
Suzanne Marks

**Educational Opportunities for Mycobacteriology Testing Practices**  
Stephanie Johnston

**Temporal Distribution of Acquired Resistance to Fluoroquinolones during
Treatment of Multidrug-Resistant TB**  
Kate Klein

**Surveillance for Bedaquiline Resistance in Multidrug-Resistant
_Mycobacterium Tuberculosis_ Isolates Obtained From Tuberculosis Patients in
the United States**  
Sheila Akinyi Okoth

**Using Reduced _Mycobacterium Tuberculosis_ Inoculum Densities in MGIT
Pyrazinamide Susceptibility Testing to Prevent False-Resistant Results and
Improve Accuracy: A Multi-Center Evaluation**  
Glenn Morlock

**Adverse Events (Hospitalization or Death) Associated With Treatment for
Latent Tuberculosis Infection, United States, 2004 -2016**  
Lilia Manangan

**Isoniazid-Monoresistance among Tuberculosis Patients, National Tuberculosis
Surveillance System -- United States, 1993-2014**  
Shareen Iqbal

**Evaluation of the Completeness of Non-countable Tuberculosis Case Reporting,
National Tuberculosis Surveillance**  
Robert Pratt

**Risk Factors for Recent Transmission of Tuberculosis among Foreign-Born
Persons in the United States, 2011 -2015**  
Kala Marks

**A Comparison of Methods for Detecting Tuberculosis Transmission -- United
States, 2014-2015**  
Clinton McDaniel

**Prioritizing Tuberculosis Genotype Clusters for Public Health Action in the
United States**  
Smita Ghosh

**Increase in Proportion of Foreign-Born Persons with Tuberculosis who have
Lived in the United States ≥ 10 Years, 1993-2015**  
Clarisse Tsang

**Combining Three Tests to Measure Prevalence of Latent Tuberculosis Infection
in 11,000 High Risk Persons in the United States**  
Christine Ho

**Strategies to Improve Detection of Outbreaks of Tuberculosis Involving
Pediatric Cases -- United States, 2015**  
Alexia Harrist

**Smoldering TB: Immunology and Host Response; Post Graduate Course on MDR
TB**  
Neha Shah

**TB in the Global North - Caring for Those in Remote and Indigenous
Communities**  
David Yost

**Utilization of 3HP among Indian Health Service Providers**  
Bunie Nwana

**TB and New Technologies: PCR-based Diagnostics in the Pacific Islands**  
Sapna Bamrah Morris

TB Trials Consortium (TBTC) Updates

 **The Latest News from the TB Trials Consortium**

TBTC Study 31external icon **** (also known as ACTG A5349; Rifapentine-
containing treatment shortening regimens for pulmonary tuberculosis: A
randomized, open-label, controlled phase 3 clinical trial) continues to
enroll. As of February 8, 2017, the study had a total of 596 participants.
The AIDS Clinical Trials Group (ACTG) network is collaborating with TBTC,
contributing substantially to enrollment.

TBTC Study 31 PK/PDexternal icon (Population pharmacokinetic (PK) and
pharmacodynamics (PD) study of efficacy and safety of high-dose rifapentine
and moxifloxacin for treatment of tuberculosis in the Study 31 treatment
trial: intensive PK sampling) continues to enroll at a subset of TBTC sites
participating in Study 31.  As of February 3, 2017, the study had enrolled a
total of 25 participants who had completed intensive PK sampling; the target
study enrollment is 60 evaluable participants with intensive PK sampling.

TBTC Study 32external icon (Prospective, randomized, blinded Phase 2
pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic study of the efficacy and tolerability of
levofloxacin in combination with optimized background regimen [OBR] for the
treatment of MDR TB; Opti-Q) has concluded enrollment at sites in Cape Town,
South Africa, and in Lima, Peru. It has reached its goal to enroll 62
evaluable participants with complete follow-up for inclusion in the primary
efficacy analysis.  An additional 16 participants remain on study treatment or
in follow-up, which should allow the study to meet its target for secondary
safety analysis.   This study is a collaboration with Boston University and
the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases- National Institutes
of Health.

TBTC Study 33external icon **** (An evaluation of adherence to latent TB
infection (LTBI) treatment with 12 doses of once weekly rifapentine and
isoniazid given as self-administered versus directly-observed therapy:
iAdhere) has been presented in several venues, including IUATLD's 2014 World
Lung Health Conference, ATS 2015, and CROI 2015external icon. The final study
report has completed CDC clearance and has been submitted for publication to a
peer-reviewed journal.

TBTC Study 36external icon (Platform for Assessment of TB Treatment Outcomes
-- An Observational Study of Individuals Treated for Pulmonary Tuberculosis)
has accrued 357 participants who have informed improvements in consortium
methods including recruitment and retention of participants, data collection,
laboratory methods, and monitoring procedures.  Many of these participants
were also enrolled in sub-studies and provided samples of blood, urine, and/or
sputum to facilitate development of new diagnostics and biomarkers.
Enrollment in this study was temporarily suspended on Sept. 13, 2016 to
promote enrollment in TBTC Study 31.  

TBTC Study 36Aexternal icon (TBTC Study 36A: Biobank Substudy -- An
Observational Study of Individuals Treated for Pulmonary Tuberculosis) is
being conducted in collaboration with the Global Alliance for TB Drug
Developmentexternal icon.  The goal of the collaboration is to obtain high
quality blood, urine, and respiratory samples from 250 patients with confirmed
pulmonary tuberculosis at specified time points during TB treatment and
follow-up that can be used to facilitate development of new diagnostics and
biomarkers.  The majority of participants have been enrolled under TBTC Study
36, with plans to enroll an additional 34 participants under TBTC Study 31.

**Upcoming TBTC Studies**

The protocol for TBTC Study 35 (Phase I/II dose finding and safety study of
rifapentine and isoniazid in HIV-infected and HIV-uninfected children with
latent tuberculosis infection) is under review at the South African Medicines
Control Council (MCC) and local institutional review boards (IRB) at two TBTC
sites in South Africa.  The protocol team, Data and Coordinating Center staff,
and Sanofi staff are working toward an investigational new drug (IND)
application to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the new child-
friendly rifapentine formulation to be used in Study 35.

TBTC is partnering with TB Epidemiologic Studies Consortium and Medical
Research Councilexternal icon (United Kingdom) to launch a new international,
multicenter, 3400-patient, open-label, randomized controlled trial TBTC Study
37 (ASTERoiD: Assessment of the Safety, Tolerability, and Effectiveness of
Rifapentine given Daily for LTBI) to evaluate novel ultra-short (6 weeks) LTBI
treatment regimen. The study protocol has been approved by the partners and is
been submitted to the CDC IRB and the FDA. TBTC aims to start enrollment into
the trial in the late fall of 2017.

On May 15-17, 2017, TBTC will hold its 39th semiannual meeting in Atlanta.
Those interested in attending should contact Ms. Barbara DeCausey via email or
phone at 404-639-5330.

_Submitted by Barbara DeCausey, MPH, MBA, DTBE_

Communications, Education, and Behavioral Studies Branch Updates

 **World TB Day 2017**

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_16/images/WorldTBDay_EndTB.jpg)

Each year we recognize World TB Day on March 24 to commemorate the date Dr.
Robert Koch announced his discovery of the bacillus that causes TB.  For the
second year, CDC will join the Global Stop TB Partnership in promoting the
2017 World TB Day theme "Unite to End TB _._ " _ _

The DTBE World TB Day Website has resources and materials to help raise
awareness about TB-related problems and solutions, and to support worldwide
TB-control efforts. Partners planning a World TB Day event can also add
activities to the online map.  The website will continue to be updated with
2017 World TB Day information.  If you have questions, please contact Leeanna
Allen at lallen1@cdc.gov.

_Submitted by Leeanna Allen, MPH, DTBE_

Laboratory Branch Updates

Recently, DTBE's Laboratory Branch  and Data Management, Statistics, and
Evaluation Branch collaborated to publish "Trends in testing for
_Mycobacterium tuberculosis_  complex from US public health laboratories,
2009-2013external icon" in Public Health Reports. The study, funded in part
through the CDC TB Elimination and Laboratory Cooperative Agreement, provided
an aggregate view of 2009-2013 national workload and turnaround time data
reported by U.S. public health laboratories. Trends and challenges in meeting
national TB laboratory benchmarks and performance targets were analyzed.

While the number of specimens and patients identified by culture and further
tested by drug susceptibility tests declined during the time frame examined,
the volume of testing for rapid detection of _Mycobacterium tuberculosis_
complex by nucleic acid amplification increased. Although public health
laboratories achieved turnaround time benchmarks for acid-fast bacilli smear
and identification from culture, achieving benchmark turnaround times for drug
susceptibility testing remained a challenge. The study also demonstrated the
high degree to which public health laboratories contributed to TB control and
prevention efforts.

To read the full article, please visit: **Tyrrell F** ,  **Stafford C** ,
**Yakrus M** ,  **Youngblood M** ,  **Hill A** ,  **Johnston S**. Trends in
testing for  _Mycobacterium tuberculosis_  complex from US public health
laboratories, 2009-2013external icon. Public Health Rep 2017;132:56-64.

_Submitted by Monica Youngblood, MPH, M(ASCP), DTBE_

Surveillance Epidemiology and Outbreak Investigations Branch Updates

 **Forging Links with Asian-American Community Health Organizations to
Strengthen TB Prevention Efforts**

The Tuberculosis Epidemiologic Studies Consortium (TBESC), a CDC-funded joint
effort with TB programs and academic institutions in 11 states, seeks to
identify ways to establish links between local health departments and
community health providers to increase latent TB infection (LTBI) screening
and treatment among high-risk populations. As a first effort, TBESC reached
out to organizations that advocate for and serve Asians.  Asians have the
highest prevalence of LTBI among foreign-born persons in the United States
(29%), according to the 2011-2012 NHANES survey. Foreign-born Asians in the
United States also have the highest TB rates of any racial group
(28.2/100,000; _Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report_ , March 25, 2016,
65(11); 273-278).  Mathematical models show that identification and treatment
of persons with LTBI will have the greatest impact on reaching TB elimination.

In September 2016, TBESC representatives met in San Francisco with
representatives from the California TB control program, medical facilities
that serve Asian populations, and Asian-American community health
organizations to identify roadblocks and opportunities to prevent TB among
Asian-Americans. Participants included Thomas Navin, MD, chief of the
Surveillance, Epidemiology, and Outbreak Investigations Branch of CDC's
Division of Tuberculosis Elimination; Jeff Caballero, Executive Director of
the Association of Asian Pacific Community Health Organizations (AAPCHO); John
Iyanrick, Senior Policy Strategist for the Asian and Pacific Islander American
Health Forum (APIAHF); Jerry Jew, MD, Medical Director of North East Medical
Services in San Francisco, a major provider of health services to Asian
residents; Caitlin Reed, Medical Director of the inpatient TB unit at UCLA
Medical Center; and Jenny Flood, MD, Chief of the Tuberculosis Control Branch
at the California Department of Public Health.

AAPCHO, which provides advocacy, research, and technical assistance on behalf
of 35 health care and human services organizations, described its past efforts
to improve Hepatitis B control.  Efforts included partnering with
pharmaceutical companies, federal agencies, and provider groups to develop
demand for testing and treatment and expand coverage for testing.

Participants exchanged ideas about successful strategies for collaboration
between health departments, clinics, and federally qualified health centers
(FQHCs).  TBESC members asked how advocacy agencies decide what issues to
focus on; how LTBI screening might be included in requirements for re-
competition among FQHCs; and how to involve faith-based communities.

Recommendations from participants included:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Technology upgrades to permit different electronic tracking, surveillance, and medical records systems to integrate information on LTBI testing and treatment seamlessly;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Use of storytelling and personal stories for direct marketing to those groups at high risk; and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Creation of CDC-branded clear, short messages for providers and patients to clarify who should be tested and treated.



TBESC is in the 6th year of a 10-year consortium focus on LTBI.  Its first
study, nearing completion, assessed the characteristics of the three available
tests for LTBI: QuantiFERON®-TB Gold In-Tube test (QFT-GIT), T-SPOT® TB test,
and tuberculin skin test (TST).  Its next phase focuses on the TB Prevention
Cascade to Cure, which identifies points along the continuum where patients
are lost to care; from LTBI testing to treatment completion.  Activities
include development of a model to estimate local LTBI prevalence among high-
risk persons; identification of providers who serve high-risk populations and
development of techniques for outreach; assessment of interventions to improve
LTBI treatment completion; and participation in a clinical trial of ultra-
short therapy for LTBI.  


_Submitted by Kiana Woods, SEOIB, DTBE_

New CDC Publications

 **November 2016**

Mindra G, Wortham JM, Haddad MB, Salinas JL, Powell KM, Armstrong LR.
Tuberculosis Among Incarcerated Hispanic Persons in the United States,
1993-2014.external icon J Immigr Minor Health. 2016 Nov 29. PMID: 27900592.
[Epub ahead of print].

**December 2016**

Garzan A, Willby MJ, Green KD, Gajadeera CS, Hou C, Tsodikov OV, Posey JE,
Garneau-Tsodikova S. Sulfonamide-Based Inhibitors of Aminoglycoside
Acetyltransferase Eis Abolish Resistance to Kanamycin in Mycobacterium
tuberculosis.external icon J Med Chem. 2016 Dec 8;59(23):10619-10628. PMID:
27933949.

Lewinsohn DM, Leonard MK, LoBue PA, Cohn DL, Daley CL, Desmond E, Keane J,
Lewinsohn DA, Loeffler AM, Mazurek GH, O'Brien RJ, Pai M, Richeldi L,
Salfinger M, Shinnick TM, Sterling TR, Warshauer DM, Woods GL. Official
American Thoracic Society/Infectious Diseases Society of America/Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention Clinical Practice Guidelines: Diagnosis of
Tuberculosis in Adults and Children.external icon Clin Infect Dis. 2016 Dec 8.
pii: ciw694. [Epub ahead of print]. PMID: 27932390.

Mitruka K, Volkmann T, Pratt RH, Kammerer JS.  Disparities in Tuberculosis
Treatment Completion by Incarceration Status, U.S., 1999-2011.external icon Am
J Prev Med. 2016 Dec 21. pii: S0749-3797(16)30571-2. doi:
10.1016/j.amepre.2016.10.035. PMID: 28012812. [Epub ahead of print.]

Modi S, Cavanaugh JS, Shiraishi RW, Alexander HL, McCarthy KD, Burmen B,
Muttai H, Heilig CM, Nakashima AK, Cain KP. Performance of Clinical Screening
Algorithms for Tuberculosis Intensified Case Finding among People Living with
HIV in Western Kenya.external icon PLoS One. 2016 Dec 9;11(12):e0167685. doi:
10.1371/journal.pone.0167685. PMID: 27936146.

Nandi P, Worrell MC, Andrews T, Sales RM, McMichael J, Hampton KH, Goswami ND.
Engaging homeless service providers in educational efforts during a
tuberculosis outbreak in Atlantaexternal icon. J Ga Public Health Assoc 2016;
6(2):279-82. https://doi.org/10.21633/jgpha.6.2s14.

Trinidad RM, Brostrom R, Morello MI, Montgomery D, Thein CC, Gajitos ML,
Heetderks A, Chorba T. Tuberculosis screening at a diabetes clinic in the
Republic of the Marshall Islandsexternal icon. Journal of Clinical
Tuberculosis and Other Mycobacterial Diseases. 2016 Dec; 5;4-7.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jctube.2016.10.001.

Tyrrell F, Stafford C, Yakrus M, Youngblood M, Hill A, Johnston S. Trends in
Testing for Mycobacterium tuberculosis Complex from US Public Health
Laboratories, 2009-2013external icon. Public Health Rep. 2017
Jan/Feb;132(1):56-64. doi: 10.1177/0033354916679989. PMID: 28005481. Epub 2016
Dec 12.

Volkmann T, Okelloh D, Agaya J, Cain K, Ooko B, Malika T, Burton D. Pilot
implementation of a contact tracing intervention for tuberculosis case
detection in Kisumu County, Kenyaexternal icon. Public Health Action. 2016 Dec
21:6(4):217-219. doi: 10.5588/pha.16.0032.

**January 2017**

Castro KG, Marks SM, Hill AN, Chen MP, Miramontes R, Winston CA, LoBue PA. In
reply.external icon Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2017 Jan 1;21(1):120-121. doi:
10.5588/ijtld.16.0708-2. No abstract available. PMID: 28157476.

Mindra G, Wortham JM, Haddad MB, Powell KM. Tuberculosis Outbreaks in the
United States, 2009-2015.external icon Public Health Rep. 2017 Jan
1:33354916688270. doi: 10.1177/0033354916688270. [Epub ahead of print]. PMID:
28147211

Savic RM, Weiner M, Mac Kenzie WR, Engle M, Whitworth WC, Johnson JL, Nsubuga
P, Nahid P, Nguyen NV, Peloquin CA, Dooley KE, Dorman SE; Tuberculosis Trials
Consortium of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Defining the
Optimal Dose of Rifapentine for Pulmonary Tuberculosis: Exposure-Response
Relations From Two Phase 2 Clinical Trials.external icon Clin Pharmacol Ther.
2017 Jan 25. doi: 10.1002/cpt.634. [Epub ahead of print]. PMID: 28124478.

Tupasi T, Garfin AM, Mangan JM, Orillaza-Chi R, Naval LC, Balane GI, Basilio
R, Golubkov A, Joson ES, Lew WJ, Lofranco V, Mantala M, Pancho S, Sarol JN,
Blumberg A, Burt D, Kurbatova EV. Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis patients'
views of interventions to reduce treatment loss to follow-up.external icon Int
J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2017 Jan 1;21(1):23-31. doi: 10.5588/ijtld.16.0433. PMID:
28157461

Page last reviewed: February 27, 2017

Content source: Division of Tuberculosis Elimination

home Tuberculosis

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Basic TB Factsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How TB Spreads
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Latent TB Infection and TB Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Risk Factors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Exposure to TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB & HIV Coinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB and Diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Terms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Personal Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kristi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Laura
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kelcie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tenzin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mildred
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Shaka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kelly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kim
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emily
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jerry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nauman
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nicole
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Thomas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Natalie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Esteban and Danielle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Deo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kenni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Rosalie and Faith
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Rick and Francene
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Santos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mabruka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Liliana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Martha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sarah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Testing & Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Who Should be Tested
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Testing for TB Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Testing in BCG-Vaccinated Persons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Screening and Testing of Health Care Personnel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Testing During Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diagnosing latent TB infection and TB disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Deciding When to Treat Latent TB Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment Regimens for Latent TB Infection (LTBI)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment for TB Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Adverse Events
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Treatment of Persons Living with HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Treatment and Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Treatment for Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Epidemiologic Studies Consortiumplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Research Projects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Trials Consortiumplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Study Descriptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Background
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Behavioral & Social Science Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Health Care Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Infection Control in Health Care Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources for TB Screening and Testing of Health Care Personnelplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB in Specific Populationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * African-American Communityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stop TB in the African-American Community Summit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Background
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Slideset
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Asian Community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Correctional Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Homelessness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * International Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory Informationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Drug Susceptibility Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * False-Positive Investigation Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Interim Laboratory Biosafety Guidance for XDR _Mycobacterium_ tuberculosis strains
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Model Performance Evaluation Program (MPEP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Rapid Molecular Testing to Detect Drug-Resistant TB in the USplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Executive Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Introduction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Background on Tests for Molecular Detection of DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General Considerations and Principles for a Molecular DR Testing Service
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Possible Scenarios and Scope of Testing for a Molecular DR Testing Service
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Research Needs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General Recommendations of the Expert Panel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Communication Plan for the Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * References
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Panel Members and CDC Participants
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Appendix 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Appendix 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Appendix 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Uses of Nucleic Acid Amplification Tests for the Diagnosis of TBplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General Considerations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General Recommendations of the Expert Panel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Recommendations to ACET, CDC, DTBE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Incidence in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reported TB in the US, 2018 Surveillance Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Trends in Tuberculosis 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tuberculosis in the United States, 2018 (Slide Set)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archived Surveillance Reports and Slide Sets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 2018 State and City Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archived State and City Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Professional Resources & Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tools for Healthcare Providersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Interactive Core Curriculum on Tuberculosis: What the Clinician Should Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources for TB Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Centers of Excellence 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publications & Productsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Patient and Public Materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Infection Control & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB in Specific Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Testing & Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccines & Immunizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Guidelinesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Contact Investigations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Control & Elimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Infection Control & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Laboratory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB & HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB in Specific Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Testing & Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccines & Immunizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidelines by Date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Guides & Toolkitsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Aggregate Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC TB Surveillance Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Effective TB Interviewing for Contact Investigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ethnographic Guides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * False-Positive Investigation Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Forging Partnerships to Eliminate TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guide to Application of Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * LTBI: A Guide for Primary Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Testing Products
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Report of Verified Case of Tuberculosis (RVCT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Self-Study Modules
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Contact Investigation Interviewing Skills Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB eDOT Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Understanding the TB Cohort Review Process
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Newslettersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 4, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 3, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 2, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 1, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 6, 2018Â 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 5, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 4, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 3, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 2, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 1, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 5, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 4, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 3, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 2, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 1, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 5, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 4, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 3, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 2, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 1, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pamphlets, Brochures, Bookletsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Questions and Answers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Patient Education Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tuberculosis â Get the Facts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tuberculosis â The Connection between TB and HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 12-Dose Regimen for Latent TB Infection-Patient Education Brochure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Postersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Test Wall Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * World TB Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Think TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stop TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports & Articlesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWRs)_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * DTBE Authored Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tuberculosis Laboratory Aggregate Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Slide Setsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epidemiology of Tuberculosis Among Non-U.S.ââBorn Persons in the United States, 1993â2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Self-Study Modules on Tuberculosis, 1-5 Slide Sets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * The Tuberculosis (TB) in Correctional Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facilitator Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Introduction to TB Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epidemiology of Tuberculosis in Correctional Facilities, United States, 1993-2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevention and Control of Tuberculosis in Correctional and Detention Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidelines for Preventing the Transmission of M. TB in Health care Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Investigation of Contacts of Persons with Infectious TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epidemiology of Pediatric Tuberculosis in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Targeted Tuberculosis Testing and Treatment of Latent Tuberculosis Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Electronic Tools & Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Web-Based Courses & Webinarsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB 101 for Health Care Workersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * TB 101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Interactive Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Program Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Content Syndication
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Social Media Graphics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Customizable Take on TB Infographic with Instructions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Events
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * World TB Dayplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * U.S. TB Championsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2020 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2019 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2018 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2017 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Supporting TB Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Building Partnerships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Expanding Testing and Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Focusing on Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Maximizing Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State TB Control Offices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Usplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mission Statement and Activitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * DTBE Strategic Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * National TB Program Objectives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Organization Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Advisory Groupsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Federal TB Task Force

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about TB Notes Newsletter page, enter your email
address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit





**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

