https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/topics/skin/Link: https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/topics/skin/    
                Description: It is estimated that more than 13 million workers in the United States are potentially exposed to chemicals that can be absorbed through the skin.     
                Keywords: Skin Exposures,  chemicals,  dermatitis,  skin cancers,  skin diseases,  skin infections,  skin injuries,  dermal absorption, Skin Conditions Occupational, Workplace Wellness &amp; Safety    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search __ Search Icon Close Icon

Ã NIOSH

NIOSH All CDC

Submit __

For a full list of topics: All A-Z Topics

The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

![NIOSH logo and tagline](/niosh/images/si-no-left-vp4.png)

# SKIN EXPOSURES & EFFECTS

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                    * Occupations at Risk
                    * Anatomy and Functions of the Skin
                    * Skin Hazards
                    * Dermal Absorption
                    * Contact Dermatitis

### Overview

It is estimated that more than 13 million workers in the United States are
potentially exposed to chemicals that can be absorbed through the skin. Dermal
exposure to hazardous agents can result in a variety of occupational diseases
and disorders, including occupational skin diseases (OSD) and systemic
toxicity. Historically, efforts to control workplace exposures to hazardous
agents have focused on inhalation rather than skin exposures. As a result,
assessment strategies and methods are well developed for evaluating inhalation
exposures in the workplace; standardized methods are currently lacking for
measuring and assessing skin exposures.

Skin Notation (SK) Profiles

NIOSH has developed a strategy for assigning multiple skin notations (SK)
capable of delineating between the systemic, direct and immune-mediated
effects caused by dermal contact with chemicals.

![Silhouette of person showing area of skin
diseases](/niosh/topics/skin/images/skin1.jpg)

OSD are the second most common type of occupational disease and can occur in
several different forms including:

                    * Irritant contact dermatitis,
                    * Allergic contact dermatitis,
                    * Skin cancers,
                    * Skin infections,
                    * Skin injuries, and
                    * Other miscellaneous skin diseases.

Contact dermatitis is one of the most common types of occupational illness,
with estimated annual costs exceeding $1 billion.

### Occupations at Risk

![skin banner](/niosh/topics/skin/images/skinBanner.jpg)

Workers at risk of potentially harmful exposures of the skin include, but are
not limited to, those working in the following industries and sectors:

                    * Food service
                    * Cosmetology
                    * Health care
                    * Agriculture
                    * Cleaning
                    * Painting
                    * Mechanics
                    * Printing/lithography
                    * Construction

### Anatomy and Functions of the Skin

The skin is the body's largest organ, accounting for more than 10 percent of
body mass. The skin provides a number of functions including:

                    * protection,
                    * water preservation,
                    * shock absorption,
                    * tactile sensation,
                    * calorie reservation,
                    * vitamin D synthesis,
                    * temperature control, and
                    * lubrication and waterproofing.

### Skin Hazards

![circular diagram showing mixed exposures: biological, mechanical, physical,
chemical](/niosh/topics/skin/images/skin5.jpg)

Causes of OSD include chemical agents, mechanical trauma, physical agents, and
biological agents.

                    * **Chemical agents** are the main cause of occupational skin diseases and disorders. These agents are divided into two types: primary irritants and sensitizers. Primary or direct irritants act directly on the skin though chemical reactions. Sensitizers may not cause immediate skin reactions, but repeated exposure can result in allergic reactions. 
                      * A worker's skin may be exposed to hazardous chemicals through: 
                        * direct contact with contaminated surfaces,
                        * deposition of aerosols,
                        * immersion, or
                        * splashes.
                    * **Physical agents** such as extreme temperatures (hot or cold) and radiation (UV/solar radiation).
                    * **Mechanical trauma** includes friction, pressure, abrasions, lacerations and contusions (scrapes, cuts and bruises).
                    * **Biological agents** include parasites, microorganisms, plants and other animal materials.

### Dermal Absorption

Dermal absorption is the transport of a chemical from the outer surface of the
skin both into the skin and into the body. Studies show that absorption of
chemicals through the skin can occur without being noticed by the worker, and
in some cases, may represent the most significant exposure pathway. Many
commonly used chemicals in the workplace could potentially result in systemic
toxicity if they penetrate through the skin (i.e. pesticides, organic
solvents). These chemicals enter the blood stream and cause health problems
away from the site of entry.

The rate of dermal absorption depends largely on the outer layer of the skin
called the _stratum corneum_ (SC) _._ The SC serves an important barrier
function by keeping molecules from passing into and out of the skin, thus
protecting the lower layers of skin. The extent of absorption is dependent on
the following factors:

                    * Skin integrity (damaged vs. intact)
                    * Location of exposure (thickness and water content of stratum corneum; skin temperature)
                    * Physical and chemical properties of the hazardous substance
                    * Concentration of a chemical on the skin surface
                    * Duration of exposure
                    * The surface area of skin exposed to a hazardous substance

Research has revealed that skin absorption occurs via diffusion, the process
whereby molecules spread from areas of high concentration to areas of low
concentration. Three mechanisms by which chemicals diffuse into the skin have
been proposed:

                    1. Intercellular lipid pathway (Figure 1)
                    2. Transcellular permeation (Figure 2)
                    3. Through the appendages (Figure 3)

![diagram of skin showing Intercellular lipid
pathway](/niosh/topics/skin/images/skin6.jpg)

**Figure 1: Intercellular lipid pathway**

As shown in Figure 1, the stratum corneum consists of cells known as
corneocytes. The spaces between the corneocytes are filled with substances
such as fats, oils, or waxes known as lipids. Some chemicals can penetrate
through these lipid-filled intercellular spaces through diffusion.

![diagram of skin showing Transcellular
permeation](/niosh/topics/skin/images/skin7.jpg)

**Figure 2: Transcellular permeation**

As shown in Figure 2, another pathway for chemicals to be absorbed into and
through the skin is transcellular, or cell-to-cell, permeation whereby
molecules diffuse directly through the corneocytes.

![diagram of skin showing pathway for diffusion of chemicals Through the
appendages \(hair follicles, glands\)](/niosh/topics/skin/images/skin8.jpg)

**Figure 3: Through the appendages (hair follicles, glands)**

As shown in Figure 3, the third pathway for diffusion of chemicals into and
through the skin is skin appendages (i.e., hair follicles and glands). This
pathway is usually insignificant because the surface area of the appendages is
very small compared to the total skin area. However, very slowly permeating
chemicals may employ this pathway during the initial stage of absorption.

### Contact Dermatitis

Contact dermatitis, also called eczema, is defined as an inflammation of the
skin resulting from exposure to a hazardous agent. It is the most common form
of reported OSD, and represents an overwhelming burden for workers in
developed nations. Epidemiological data indicate that contact dermatitis
constitutes approximately 90-95% of all cases of OSD in the United States.
Common symptoms of dermatitis include:

                    * Itching
                    * Pain
                    * Redness
                    * Swelling
                    * The formation of small blisters or wheals (itchy, red circles with a white centre) on the skin
                    * Dry, flaking, scaly skin that may develop cracks

#### Occupational contact dermatitis is frequently divided into two
categories:

                    1. **Irritant contact dermatitis (ICD)** is a non-immunologic reaction that manifests as an inflammation of the skin caused by direct damage to the skin following exposure to a hazardous agent. The reaction is typically localized to the site of contact. Available data indicates that ICD represents approximately 80% of all cases of occupational contact dermatitis.ICD may be caused by phototoxic responses (e.g., tar), acute exposures to highly irritating substances (e.g., acids, bases, oxiding/reducing agents), or chronic cumulative exposures to mild irritants (e.g., water, detergents, weak cleaning agents).
                    2. **Allergic contact dermatitis (ACD)** is an inflammation of the skin caused by an immunologic reaction triggered by dermal contact to a skin allergen. For ACD to occur, a worker must be first sensitized to the allergen. Subsequent exposures of the skin to the allergenic agent may elicit an immunologic reaction resulting in inflammation of the skin. The reaction is not confined to the site of contact and may result in systemic responses.ACD may be caused by industrial compounds (i.e. metals, epoxy and acrylic resins, rubber additives, chemical intermediates), agrochemicals (i.e. pesticides and fertilizers), and commercial chemicals.

Because the symptoms and presentation of ICD and ACD are so similar, it is
extremely difficult to distinguish between the two forms of contact dermatitis
without clinical testing (e.g. patch testing). The severity of contact
dermatitis is highly variable and depends on many factors including:

                    * Characteristics of the hazardous agent (irritant and/or allergen)
                    * Concentration of the hazardous agent (irritant and/or allergen)
                    * Duration and frequency of exposure to the hazardous agent (irritant and/or allergen)
                    * Environmental factors ( e.g., temperature, humidity)
                    * Condition of the skin (e.g., healthy vs. damaged skin, dry vs. wet)

Page last reviewed: July 2, 2013

Content source: National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health

home Workplace Safety & Health Topics

                    * Skin Exposures and Effects expand
                      * Recommendations and Resources
                      * Skin Conferences
                      * Ongoing Skin Research
                      * Skin Notation (SK) Profiles
                      * Skin Permeation Calculator
                      * Finite Dose Skin Permeation Calculator
                      * Occupational Dermatoses Program for Physicians expand
                        * Slide 1-5A
                        * Slide 6-10
                        * Slide 11-15
                        * Slide 16-20
                        * Slide 21-25
                        * Slide 26-30
                        * Slide 31-35
                        * Slide 36-40
                        * Slide 41-45
                        * Slide 46-50
                        * Slide 51-55
                        * Slide 56-60
                        * Slide 61-65
                        * Slide 66-70
                        * Slide 71-75
                        * Slide 76-80
                        * Slide 81-85
                        * Slide 86-90
                        * Slide 91-95
                        * Slide 96-100
                        * Slide 101-105
                        * Slide 106-110
                        * Slide 111-113
                        * Slide 114-118
                        * Slide 119-123
                        * Slide 124-128
                        * Slide 129-135
                        * Slide 136-139

#### Related Topics

                    * Bloodborne Infectious Disease
                    * Glutaraldehyde
                    * Health Hazard Evaluations (HHEs)
                    * Latex Allergy
                    * Protective Clothing

#### Follow NIOSH

                    * fb Facebook
                    * pinterest Pinterest
                    * twitter Twitter
                    * youtube YouTube

#### NIOSH Homepage

                    * NIOSH A-Z
                    * Workplace Safety & Health Topics
                    * Publications and Products
                    * Programs
                    * Contact NIOSH

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

