

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

_Salmonella_

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

# Multistate Outbreak of Drug-Resistant _Salmonella_ Enteritidis Infections
Linked to Raw, Frozen, Stuffed Chicken Entrees Produced by Barber Foods (Final
Update)

Minus

Related Pages

Posted October 16, 2015 11:30 AM ET

This outbreak appears to be over. However, the recalled frozen chicken
products have a long shelf life and may still be in people's freezers.
Consumers unaware of the recall could continue to eat the products and
potentially get sick. **Read the Advice to Consumers.**

This outbreak was not connected with an outbreak of _Salmonella_ Enteritidis
infections linked to raw, frozen, stuffed chicken entrees produced by Aspen
Foods and sold under many different brands.

Highlights

                    * This outbreak appears to be over. However, the recalled raw, frozen, stuffed and breaded chicken products have a long shelf life and may still be in people's freezers. Consumers unaware of the recall could continue to eat the products and potentially get sick.
                    * CDC, several states, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS) investigated an outbreak of _Salmonella_ Enteritidis infections linked to raw, frozen, stuffed and breaded chicken entrees produced by Barber Foods. 
                      * Fifteen people infected with the outbreak strains of _Salmonella_ Enteritidis were reported from seven states. Four ill people were hospitalized. No deaths were reported.
                    * CDC's National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory conducted antibiotic resistance testing on clinical isolates collected from four ill people infected with the outbreak strains. 
                      * All four (100%) isolates tested were resistant to ampicillin and tetracycline.
                      * Antibiotic resistance may be associated with increased risk of hospitalization, development of a bloodstream infection, or treatment failure in patients.
                    * Recalls of several brands of frozen, raw, stuffed and breaded chicken entrees produced by Barber Foods were announced as a result of this investigation. 
                      * On July 12, 2015, Barber Foods issued an expanded recallExternal of approximately 1.7 million pounds of frozen, raw stuffed chicken products that may be contaminated with _Salmonella_ Enteritidis. This recall expanded the initial Barber Foods recall of chicken Kiev on July 2, 2015.
                      * On July 13, 2015, Omaha Steaks issued a recallExternal of stuffed chicken breast entrees that may be contaminated with _Salmonella_.
                      * A full list of recalled products and photos are available on the Advice to Consumers page.
                    * Consumers should check their freezers for any of the recalled frozen chicken products and should not eat them. Retailers should not sell them and restaurants should not serve them.

Outbreak Summary

#### Introduction

CDC, several states, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Food Safety and
Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS) investigated an outbreak of _Salmonella_
Enteritidis infections linked to raw, frozen, stuffed and breaded chicken
entrees produced by Barber Foods. This outbreak was not connected with an
outbreak of _Salmonella_ Enteritidis infections linked to raw, frozen, stuffed
chicken entrees produced by Aspen Foods.

Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses
that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of
public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA
"fingerprinting" is performed on  _Salmonella_ bacteria isolated from ill
people using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and
whole genome sequencing (WGS). WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than
PFGE. PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to
identify possible outbreaks of enteric illness. Two DNA fingerprints (outbreak
strains) of  _Salmonella_ Enteritidis, shown to be closely related
genetically, were involved in this outbreak.

A total of 15 people infected with the outbreak strains of _Salmonella_
Enteritidis were reported from seven states. The number of ill people reported
from each state was as follows: Connecticut (1), Illinois (2), Minnesota (8),
New Hampshire (1), New York (1), Oklahoma (1), and Wisconsin (1).

Illness onset dates ranged from April 5, 2015 to July 27, 2015. Ill people
ranged in age from 4 years to 82, with a median age of 32, and 60% were
female. Among 10 people with available information, 4 (40%) were hospitalized.
No deaths were reported.

#### Investigation of the Outbreak

Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback information indicated that raw,
frozen, stuffed and breaded chicken entrees produced by Barber Foods was the
likely source of this outbreak.

In interviews, ill people answered questions about foods eaten and other
exposures in the week before they became ill. Of 10 people for whom
information was known, 9 (90%) reported eating a frozen, raw, stuffed and
breaded chicken entree produced by Barber Foods in the week before becoming
ill.

The Minnesota Department of Health (MDH) and Department of Agriculture (MDA)
collected 15 samples of unopened frozen chicken entrees produced by Barber
Foods from retail locations for laboratory testing. MDA isolated _Salmonella_
from 14 of these samples; an outbreak strain was isolated from one sample. In
addition, MDH and MDA collected four samples of unopened Barber Foods chicken
Kiev from two ill persons' homes for laboratory testing. MDA and MDH isolated
a _Salmonella_ outbreak strain from three of these samples which were
collected from both households.

As a result of the outbreak investigation, on July 2, 2015, Barber Foods
recalledExternal approximately 58,320 pounds of Chicken Kiev because it may be
contaminated with _Salmonella_ Enteritidis. The product subject to recall
included a 2 lb., 4 oz. box containing six individually pouched pieces of
"Barber Foods Premium Entrees Breaded-Boneless Raw Stuffed Chicken Breasts
with Rib Meat Kiev" with use by/sell by dates of April 28, 2016, May 20, 2016,
and July 21, 2016. The product was available for purchase at Sam's Club retail
stores in Illinois, Minnesota, and Wisconsin.

On July 12, 2015, Barber Foods expanded its recallExternal to include 1.7
million pounds of frozen, raw stuffed chicken products that may be
contaminated with _Salmonella_ Enteritidis. The recall included Chicken Kiev
as well as other types of frozen chicken products. The chicken products were
produced between February 17, 2015 and May 20, 2015. The products subject to
recall bear the establishment number "P-276" inside the USDA mark of
inspection. The products were shipped to retail locations nationwide and
Canada and sold under many different brand names.

On July 13, 2015, Omaha Steaks announced a recallExternal of stuffed chicken
breast products manufactured by Barber Foods that may be contaminated with
_Salmonella_. A small amount of the product was sold under the Omaha Steaks
label and bears the establishment number "P-4230A" inside the USDA mark of
inspection.

The National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring SystemExternal (NARMS) is a
U.S. public health surveillance system that tracks antibiotic resistance in
foodborne and other enteric bacteria found in people, raw meat and poultry,
and food-producing animals. NARMS is a partnership among the CDC, the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration (FDA), USDA, and state and local health
departments.

The NARMS human surveillance program at CDC monitors antibiotic resistance in
_Salmonella_ and other bacteria isolated from clinical specimens submitted to
NARMS by public health laboratories. CDC's NARMS laboratory conducted
antibiotic resistance testing on clinical isolates collected from four ill
people infected with the outbreak strains. Of the four isolates tested, all
(100%) were resistant to ampicillin and tetracycline. Antibiotic resistance
may be associated with increased risk of hospitalization, development of a
bloodstream infection, or treatment failure in patients.

This outbreak appears to be over. However, the recalled raw, frozen, stuffed
and breaded chicken products have a long shelf life and may still be in
people's freezers. Consumers unaware of the recall could continue to eat the
products and potentially get sick.

October 16, 2015

#### Final Case Count Update

Since the last update on July 29, 2015, six more ill people were reported from
five states.

A total of 15 people infected with the outbreak strains of _Salmonella_
Enteritidis were reported from seven states. The number of ill people reported
from each state was as follows: Connecticut (1), Illinois (2), Minnesota (8),
New Hampshire (1), New York (1), Oklahoma (1), and Wisconsin (1).

Illness onset dates ranged from April 5, 2015 to July 27, 2015. Ill people
ranged in age from 4 years to 82, with a median age of 32, and 60% were
female. Among 10 people with available information, 4 (40%) were hospitalized,
and no deaths were reported.

July 29, 2015

##### Case Count Update

Since the last update on July 16, 2015, two additional ill people have been
reported from Illinois (1) and Minnesota (1). A total of nine people infected
with a strain of _Salmonella_ Enteritidis have been reported from Illinois
(1), Minnesota (6), Oklahoma (1), and Wisconsin (1).

Illness onset dates range from April 5, 2015 to July 5, 2015. Ill people range
in age from 4 years to 82 with a median age of 46, and 56% are female. Three
of six people for whom information is available (50%) have been hospitalized,
and no deaths have been reported.

Illnesses that occurred after July 14, 2015 might not yet be reported due to
the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is
reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks.

##### Investigation Update

In ongoing interviews, ill people answered questions about foods eaten and
other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of eight people for whom
information is known, seven (88%) reported eating a frozen, raw, stuffed
chicken entree produced by Barber Foods in the week before becoming ill.

The National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring SystemExternal (NARMS) is a
U.S. public health surveillance system that tracks antibiotic resistance in
foodborne and other enteric bacteria found in people, raw meat and poultry,
and food-producing animals. NARMS is a partnership among the CDC, the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA),
and state and local health departments.

The NARMS human surveillance program at CDC monitors antibiotic resistance in
_Salmonella_ and other bacteria isolated from clinical specimens submitted to
NARMS by public health laboratories. CDC's NARMS laboratory conducted
antibiotic resistance testing on clinical isolates collected from four ill
people infected with the outbreak strain. Of the four isolates tested, all
(100%) were resistant to ampicillin and tetracycline. Antibiotic resistance
may be associated with increased risk of hospitalization, development of a
bloodstream infection, or treatment failure in patients.

CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory
surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to
interview them. Updates will be provided when more information is available.

At this time, this outbreak has not been connected with an outbreak of
_Salmonella_ Enteritidis infections linked to raw, frozen, stuffed chicken
entrees produced by Aspen Foods and sold under many different brands.

July 16, 2015

##### Case Count Update

Since the last update on July 13, 2015, one additional ill person has been
reported from Oklahoma. A total of seven people infected with a strain of
_Salmonella_ Enteritidis have been reported from Minnesota (5), Oklahoma (1),
and Wisconsin (1). Illness onset dates range from April 5, 2015 to June 23,
2015. Two people were hospitalized.

##### Investigation Update

CDC, several states, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Food Safety and
Inspection Service are currently investigating two separate outbreaks of
_Salmonella_ Enteritidis infections linked to raw, frozen, stuffed chicken
entrees. The two outbreaks are caused by different strains of _Salmonella_
Enteritidis. The likely source for the two outbreaks is different.

Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback information indicate that raw,
frozen, stuffed chicken entrees produced by Barber Foods are the likely source
of this outbreak. In interviews, ill people answered questions about foods
eaten and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of six people
for whom information is known, five (83%) reported eating a frozen, raw,
stuffed chicken entree produced by Barber Foods in the week before becoming
ill.

The Minnesota Department of Health (MDH) and Department of Agriculture (MDA)
collected 15 samples of unopened frozen chicken entrees produced by Barber
Foods from retail locations for laboratory testing. MDA isolated _Salmonella_
from 14 of these samples; the outbreak strain was isolated from one sample. In
addition, MDH and MDA collected two samples of unopened Barber Foods chicken
Kiev from an ill person's home for laboratory testing. MDA and MDH isolated
the _Salmonella_ outbreak strain from one of these samples. Laboratory testing
is ongoing.

CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory
surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to
interview them. Updates will be provided when more information is available.

At this time, this outbreak has not been connected with an outbreak of
_Salmonella_ Enteritidis infections linked to raw, frozen, stuffed chicken
entrees produced by Aspen Foods. For the latest information about that
outbreak investigation, please visit the outbreak webpage.

July 13, 2015

##### Case Count Update

###### Outbreak 1

Since the last update on July 8, 2015, two more ill people have been reported
from Minnesota and Wisconsin. A total of six people infected with a strain of
_Salmonella_ Enteritidis have been reported from Minnesota (5) and Wisconsin
(1). Illness onset dates range from April 5, 2015 to June 23, 2015. Two people
were hospitalized.

###### Outbreak 2

No new illnesses have been identified since the last update on July 8, 2015.
The Minnesota Department of HealthExternal identified three people infected
with a different strain of _Salmonella_ Enteritidis with illness onset dates
ranging from May 9, 2015 to June 8, 2015. Two people were hospitalized.

##### Investigation Update

On July 12, 2015, Barber Foods expanded its recallExternal to include 1.7
million pounds of frozen, raw stuffed chicken products that may be
contaminated with _Salmonella_ Enteritidis. The recall included Chicken Kiev
as well as other types of frozen chicken products. The chicken products were
produced between February 17, 2015 and May 20, 2015. The products subject to
recall bear the establishment number "P-276" inside the USDA mark of
inspection. The products were shipped to retail locations nationwide and
Canada and sold under many different brand names. A list of recalled products
is availableCdc-excelExternal. This recall expanded the initial Barber Foods
recall of Chicken Kiev on July 2, 2015 and resulted from investigation of the
first outbreak.

CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory
surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to
interview them. Updates will be provided when more information is available.

Initial Announcement

#### July 8, 2015

The Minnesota Department of HealthExternal (MDH) and the Minnesota Department
of Agriculture (MDA), along with CDC and the U.S. Department of Agriculture's
Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS), are investigating two
outbreaks of _Salmonella_ Enteritidis infections linked to raw, frozen,
breaded and pre-browned stuffed chicken entrees.

Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify
illnesses that may be part of these outbreaks. PulseNet is the national
subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories
coordinated by CDC. DNA "fingerprinting" is performed on _Salmonella_ bacteria
isolated from ill people by using a technique called pulsed-field gel
electrophoresis, or PFGE. PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA
"fingerprints" to identify possible outbreaks. Two DNA "fingerprints"
(outbreak strains) are included in these outbreak investigations. The two
strains represent the most common _Salmonella_ Enteritidis strains in the
PulseNet database. Because the two strains are so common, most of the
illnesses identified as having matching PFGE patterns may not be related to
this outbreak. Investigators are using additional laboratory methods,
including whole genome sequencing, to help clarify which illnesses may be
related to these outbreaks.

## Investigation of the Outbreaks

In the first outbreak, MDHExternal identified four people infected with a
strain of _Salmonella_ Enteritidis with illness onset dates ranging from April
5, 2015 to June 8, 2015. Two people were hospitalized. Epidemiologic and
traceback evidence linked these illnesses to eating Barber Foods brand Chicken
Kiev raw stuffed chicken breast. This investigation is ongoing.

In the second outbreak, MDHExternal identified three people infected with a
different strain of _Salmonella_ Enteritidis with illness onset dates ranging
from May 9, 2015 to June 8, 2015. Two people were hospitalized. The MDH and
MDA investigation found that illnesses occurred after the people had eaten
Antioch Farms brand Cordon Bleu raw stuffed chicken breast. This investigation
is also ongoing.

On July 1, 2015, USDA-FSIS issued a public health alertExternal due to
concerns about illnesses caused by _Salmonella_ that may be associated with
raw, frozen, breaded and pre-browned, stuffed chicken products. In the alert,
USDA-FSIS advises all consumers to safely prepare and cook these products to a
temperature of 165°F.

As a result of the first outbreak investigation, on July 2, 2015, Barber Foods
recalledExternal approximately 58,320 pounds of Chicken Kiev because it may be
contaminated with _Salmonella_ Enteritidis. The product subject to recall
includes a 2 lb.-4 oz. box containing six individually pouched pieces of
"Barber Foods Premium Entrees Breaded-Boneless Raw Stuffed Chicken Breasts
with Rib Meat Kiev" with use by/sell by dates of April 28, 2016, May 20, 2016,
and July 21, 2016. The product was available for purchase at Sam's Club retail
stores in Illinois, Minnesota, and Wisconsin.

Illnesses in other states linked to either outbreak have not been identified
but the investigation is ongoing. CDC and state and local public health
partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify
additional ill people and to interview them. Updates will be provided when
more information is available.

At A Glance

                    * Case Count: 15
                    * States: 7
                    * Deaths: 0
                    * Hospitalizations: 4
                    * Recall: Yes

![THE RAW STORY - Some frozen chicken entrees look like they're cooked but
they're not!](/salmonella/frozen-chicken-
entrees-07-15/images/raw_story.jpg)Cdc-pdf[PDF - 732 KB]

Click for larger view Cdc-pdf[PDF - 1 page].

CLICK TO VIEW EPI CURVE GRAPHS

![People infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Enteritidis, by date
of illness onset*](/salmonella/frozen-chicken-entrees-07-15/images/sm-epi-
curve-10-16-2015.jpg)

CLICK TO VIEW CASE COUNT MAP

![People infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Enteritidis, by state
of residence, as of October 15, 2015 \(n=15\)](/salmonella/frozen-chicken-
entrees-07-15/images/sm-map-10-15-2015.jpg)

More Information

                    * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                    * Signs & Symptoms
                    * Key Resources

Page last reviewed: October 16, 2015

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Foodborne,
Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases (DFWED)

home _Salmonella_ Homepage

                    * Questions & Answersplus icon
                      * Additional Information
                    * Prevention
                    * Symptoms
                    * Diagnosis & Treatmentplus icon
                      * Diagnostic and Public Health Testing
                    * Current Outbreaksplus icon
                      * Reporting Timeline
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Pet Turtlesplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a tortugas mascota pequeÃ±as
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Cut Fruitplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Ground Beefplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a la carne de res molida
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Turtlesplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a turtugas mascota
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pig Ear Dog Treatsplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Papayasplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a papayas frescas enteras importadas de MÃ©xico
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Karawan brand Tahiniplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a tahini de la marca Karawan
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Backyard Poultryplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brotes de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculados a aves de corral domÃ©sticas
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Raw Tunaplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ Newport vinculado a atÃºn crudo congelado
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melonplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ Carrau vinculado a melÃ³n y sandÃ­a precortados
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                        * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Butterball Brand Ground Turkeyplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado al pavo molido de marca Butterball
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                        * Actualizaciones de la investigaciÃ³n del brote, por fecha
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Hedgehogsplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a los erizos como mascota
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                        * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                    * Previous Outbreaksplus icon
                      * 2018 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Multidrug-Resistant _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Raw Turkey Productsplus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por Salmonella multirresistente vinculado a productos de pavo crudo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Tahini from Achdut Ltd., 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a tahini elaborado por Achdut Ltd.
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Raw Chicken Products, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Advice to Clinicians
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por Salmonella multirresistente vinculado a productos de pollo crudo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Recomendaciones para los mÃ©dicos
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Ground Beef, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a carne molida de res
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Agbeni Infections, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Gravel Ridge Farms Shell Eggs, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado al pollo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chicken, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado al pollo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Hy-Vee Spring Pasta Salad, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por Salmonella vinculado a la ensalada de pasta âHy-Vee Spring Pasta Saladâ
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Kelloggâs Honey Smacks Cereal, 2018plus icon
                          * Salmonella Infections Linked to Kelloggâs Honey Smacks Cereal en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melon, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melon en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Contact with Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Contact with Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Case Count Maps
                        * _Salmonella_ Braenderup Infections Linked to Shell Eggs, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Braenderup Infections Linked to Shell Eggs en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recalls and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Dried Coconut, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Dried Coconut en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall and Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Guinea Pigs, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Guinea Pigs en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Case Count Maps en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Signs & Symptoms en EspaÃ±ol
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chicken Salad, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chicken Salad en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Kratom, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Kratom en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recalls and Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Montevideo Infections Linked to Raw Sprouts, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Raw Sprouts en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Shredded Coconut, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Shredded Coconut en EspaÃ±ol
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Shredded Coconut á» Viá»t Nam [PDF â 3 pages]
                          * Recall and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2017 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Urbana Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Urbana Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Newport & Infantis Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Newport & Infantis Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Anatum Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Anatum Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Turtles, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles, 2017 en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Case Count Maps
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Laboratory Exposure, 2017plus icon
                          * Advice to Students & Employees in Microbiology Laboratories
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry in Backyard Flocksplus icon
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Live Poultry FAQ
                      * 2016 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Heidelberg Infections Linked to Contact with Dairy Calves, 2016plus icon
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                        * _Salmonella_ Oranienburg Infections Linked to Shell Eggs, 2016plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Reading and _Salmonella_ Abony Infections linked to Alfalfa Sprouts, 2016plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps 
                          * Epi Curves 
                          * Signs & Symptoms 
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2016plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Live Poultry FAQs
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Montevideo and _Salmonella_ Senftenberg Infections Linked to Wonderful Pistachios, 2016plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts from One Contaminated Seed Lot, 2016plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Virchow Infections Linked to Raw Meal Organic Shake and Meal Products, 2016plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2015 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) Infections Linked to Sprouted Nut Butter Spreads, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles, 2015plus icon
                          * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Advice to Pet Owners en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Signs & Symptoms 
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Poona Infections Linked to Imported Cucumbers, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Multidrug-Resistant _Salmonella_ I 4,[5],12:i:- and _Salmonella_ Infantis Infections Linked to Pork, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Enteritidis Infections Linked to Raw, Frozen, Stuffed Chicken Entrees Produced by Aspen Foods, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Drug-Resistant _Salmonella_ Enteritidis Infections Linked to Raw, Frozen, Stuffed Chicken Entrees Produced by Barber Foods, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2015plus icon
                          * Advice to Backyard Flock Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Raw Tuna, 2015plus icon
                          * Advice to Retailers & Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Crested Geckos, 2015plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2014 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Bean Sprouts, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                          * Final Case Count Maps
                          * Final Epi Curve
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Braenderup Infections Linked to Nut Butter, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human Typhimurium Infections Linked to Laboratory Exposure, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Students & Employees in Labs
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chia Powder, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Frozen Feeder Rodents, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Bearded Dragons, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Heidelberg Infections Linked to Tyson Brand Mechanically Separated Chicken, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Institutions
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Stanley Infections Linked to Raw Cashew Cheese, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2013 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Heidelberg Infections Linked to Foster Farms Brand Chicken, 2013plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                          * Timeline of Events
                        * _Salmonella_ Mbandaka Infections Linked to Tahini Sesame Paste, 2013plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Saintpaul Infections Linked to Imported Cucumbers, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Heidelberg Infections Linked to Chicken, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Ground Beef, 2013plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2012 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Bredeney Infections Linked to Peanut Butter, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Hedgehogs, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Braenderup Infections Associated with Mangoes, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Typhimurium and Newport Infections Linked to Cantaloupe, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Ground Beef, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Hadar Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Montevideo Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infantis Infections Linked to Dry Dog Food, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Information for Pet Owners
                          * Information for Veterinarians
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Bareilly and Nchanga Infections Associated with a Raw Scraped Ground Tuna Product, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                          * Timeline of Events
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Outbreaks Diagram
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resource
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Restaurant Chain A, 2012
                      * 2010 through 2011 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to Ground Beef
                        * Heidelberg Infections Linked to Kosher Broiled Chicken Livers
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Turkish Pine Nuts
                        * Heidelberg Infections Linked to Ground Turkey
                        * Agona Infections Linked to Whole, Fresh Imported Papayas
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts and Spicy Sprouts
                        * Altona and Johannesburg Infections Linked to Chicks and Ducklings
                        * Typhimurium Infections Associated with Lab Exposure
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to African Dwarf Frogs
                        * Hadar Infections Associated with Turkey Burgers
                        * Panama Infections Linked to Cantaloupe
                        * I 4,[5],12:i:- Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts
                        * Enteritidis Infections Associated with Shell Eggs
                        * Chester Infections Associated with Cheesy Chicken & Rice Frozen EntrÃ©e
                        * Typhi (Typhoid Fever) Associated with Frozen Mamey Fruit Pulp
                        * Hartford and Baildon Infections Associated with Restaurant Chain A
                        * I 4,[5],12:i:- Linked to Frozen Rodents
                        * Newport Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts
                        * Montevideo Infections Linked to Red and Black Pepper/Italian-Style Meats
                      * 2006 through 2009 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Saintpaul Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pistachio Nuts
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to Peanut Butter
                        * Saintpaul Infections Linked to Raw Produce
                        * Agona Infections Linked to Rice & Wheat Puff Cereal
                        * Litchfield Infections Linked to Cantaloupe
                        * I 4,[5],12:i:- Infections Linked to Pot Pies
                        * Human Schwarzengrund Infections Linked to Dry Pet Food
                        * Wandsworth Infections Linked to Veggie Booty
                        * Tennessee Infections Linked to Peanut Butter
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to Tomatoes
                    * For Health Professionals
                    * Surveillanceplus icon
                      * _Salmonella_ Atlasplus icon
                        * 32 Individual Serotypes Reports
                        * Importance of Serotyping
                        * Snapshots of Serotypes
                    * Communication Materials
                    * Reports & Publicationsplus icon
                      * MMWR Articles
                      * References

Related Links

                    * Multistate Foodborne Outbreaks
                    * Zoonotic Diseases (Diseases from Animals)
                    * Foodborne Illness A-Z
                    * Estimates of Foodborne Illness
                    * Report a Foodborne Illness
                    * Foodsafety.govExternal file_external 
                    * U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External file_external 
                    * USDA Food Safety and Inspection ServiceExternal file_external 

Follow Salmonella

![Sign up for RSS feed.](/salmonella/images/outbreaks/rss-icon.png)

Sign up for RSS Feed

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF Excel file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

