https://www.cdc.gov/tb/topic/basics/marthastory.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/tb/topic/basics/marthastory.htm    
                Description: A TB survivor    
                Keywords: tb,  tuberculosis,  cdc,  Personal Stories,  Martha,  survivor,  experience,  patient, Tuberculosis (TB)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Tuberculosis (TB)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# TB Personal Stories

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

### Martha's Story



![Martha](/tb/topic/basics/images/martha-250x180.jpg)

Martha

_Martha is a nurse who worked in Juarez, Mexico, at a local community
hospital, caring for patients at one of the poorest health centers. In October
2010,_ _she was diagnosed with tuberculosis (TB) and later she learned she had
multidrug-resistant TB (MDR TB). Martha wants to tell others how important it
is to receive effective care, as she did from the Texas binational TB program
Project Juntos._

My name is Martha, and I am a licensed nurse. I am also a diabetic. Being the
head of my household, a single mother with two teenagers, and the sole support
of my elderly mother, my priorities were my family and work. I now see it as
ironic that despite being a health care provider, I did not take care of
myself as I should have.

In August 2010, I developed a cough, but did not pay much attention to it.
After 2 weeks, I went to see my physician, and he treated me for a cold. I
developed a more persistent cough and started losing weight. A month passed,
and I started having persistent night sweats; the cough was getting worse.
Within 3 weeks, I had gone through two rounds of antibiotics.

In late September 2010, I visited my physician again, and he ordered a chest
X-ray. It showed cavities in my lungs, a sign of TB disease, but he did not
notice it and treated my illness as bronchitis. He prescribed one antibiotic
after another, all of which failed to help. I had a lot of symptoms --
sweating, chills, raised temperature, loss of appetite, and fatigue. All I
wanted to do was stay in bed. Finally, in late October 2010, I was tested for
TB and told that I had TB disease. This was shocking news to me.

I was referred to the local TB program in Juarez and received a lot of support
from the staff. I started treatment for TB right away, and took it for the
next 2 months. But instead of getting better, I was still getting worse. I
continued to lose weight every day -- there were days when I couldn't eat.

In January 2011, my physician told me my treatment was not working. I was
referred to Project Juntos in El Paso, Texas for my TB care because my case
was so challenging. Project Juntos, supported by the Texas Department of State
Health Services (DSHS), provides TB treatment services to binational patients
in the border area, as well as to special cases--those that are especially
hard to treat. My treatment was given as directly observed therapy (DOT) for
the entire length of treatment, which meant a Project Juntos nurse made sure I
took every dose of the drugs I needed. I also learned my treatment would
include injections three times a week for 5 months--and I have always had a
fear of injections. There were times that I was ready to give up, but the
Texas DSHS Project Juntos nurses always encouraged me to make sure that I
continued with my treatment.

Luckily, it appears that I did not infect anyone. My two teenage children and
my mother were tested for TB infection and evaluated for disease, and
fortunately all were negative; the Project Juntos nurses keep monitoring them
with evaluations in 6-month intervals. The health center where I worked in
Juarez carried out contact investigations among my co-workers. I know of no
case being linked to me.

I received the new TB treatment for 6 months, January-June 2011. During
treatment, I continued losing weight and began coughing up blood. I was
hospitalized about four times due to coughing up blood. I even had to have a
blood transfusion. Finally, the bleeding was controlled.

By the end of June 2011, it became clear that this new treatment was not
working. New samples of sputum were collected and tested, and while we waited
for the results, I was taken off treatment. By late August the results came
back and showed that my TB was resistant to all six drugs I was taking.

In September 2011, I started a completely new course of treatment that
included nine pills and two injections daily. These drugs, called second-line
medications, are more toxic than the standard first-line drugs, as they are
used to treat resistant bacteria. I would need to take this new regimen for
18-24 months, depending on how well they worked. By my second month on the new
treatment, my tests showed that the medication was working.

> "There were times that I was ready to give up, but the Texas DSHS Project
> Juntos nurses always encouraged me to make sure that I continued with my
> treatment."

Finally, I completed treatment on November 28, 2012. The most significant side
effects from these toxic medications included stomach pain, nausea and
vomiting, and skin irritation. I now have profound deafness from the
medication and have to wear hearing aids. But I am thankful for finally being
healed and being alive.

As health care providers, some of us don't think that we'll ever be on the
"other" side, someone with a serious disease. We think of ourselves as the
ones giving treatment, providing care to patients. We need to learn to take
care of ourselves, and pay more attention to diseases and illness, and give
them priority over other things in our lives.

There were times that I was ready to give up rather than to continue with
treatment. I lost a lot of things during the time I had TB. I did not have an
income for 14 months. I lost my house, and we had to live with my brother. But
I had the support of my family, friends, co-workers, and the staff from
Project Juntos, who never left me alone. Thanks to the Texas DSHS Project
Juntos staff, I was able to continue the ordeal of taking TB treatment for 18
months. And I found the strength to tolerate the painful and lengthy treatment
because of my children.

The message I want to share is that TB is a serious disease, but if treated
promptly and adequately, it can be cured. Taking care of one's health is so
important in preventing a disease from getting out of control or contributing
to other conditions. I now take care of myself. My diabetes is under control,
I follow a good nutritional regimen, take medication on schedule, and I rest
and don't abuse my health. Now that I'm recovered, I am working again. But my
recovery would not have been possible without the help of the nurses in the
Texas binational TB program Project Juntos.

More TB Personal Stories

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Shaka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Kim
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mildred
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Kelly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jerry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Emily
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Kate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Thomas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Deo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Rick and Francene
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Liliana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sarah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nauman
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Natalie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Kenni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Santos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Martha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nicole
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Esteban and Danielle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Rosalie and Faith
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mabruka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Personal Stories from TB Free Californiaexternal icon

More

Page last reviewed: March 8, 2013

Content source: Division of Tuberculosis Elimination

home Tuberculosis

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Basic TB Factsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How TB Spreads
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Latent TB Infection and TB Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Risk Factors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Exposure to TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB & HIV Coinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB and Diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Terms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Personal Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kristi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Laura
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kelcie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tenzin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mildred
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Shaka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kelly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kim
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emily
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jerry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nauman
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nicole
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Thomas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Natalie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Esteban and Danielle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Deo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kenni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Rosalie and Faith
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Rick and Francene
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Santos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mabruka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Liliana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Martha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sarah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Testing & Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Who Should be Tested
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Testing for TB Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Testing in BCG-Vaccinated Persons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Screening and Testing of Health Care Personnel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Testing During Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diagnosing latent TB infection and TB disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Deciding When to Treat Latent TB Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment Regimens for Latent TB Infection (LTBI)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment for TB Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Adverse Events
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Treatment of Persons Living with HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Treatment and Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Treatment for Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Epidemiologic Studies Consortiumplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Research Projects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Trials Consortiumplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Study Descriptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Background
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Behavioral & Social Science Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Health Care Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Infection Control in Health Care Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources for TB Screening and Testing of Health Care Personnelplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB in Specific Populationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * African-American Communityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stop TB in the African-American Community Summit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Background
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Slideset
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Asian Community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Correctional Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Homelessness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * International Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory Informationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Drug Susceptibility Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * False-Positive Investigation Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Interim Laboratory Biosafety Guidance for XDR _Mycobacterium_ tuberculosis strains
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Model Performance Evaluation Program (MPEP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Rapid Molecular Testing to Detect Drug-Resistant TB in the USplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Executive Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Introduction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Background on Tests for Molecular Detection of DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General Considerations and Principles for a Molecular DR Testing Service
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Possible Scenarios and Scope of Testing for a Molecular DR Testing Service
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Research Needs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General Recommendations of the Expert Panel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Communication Plan for the Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * References
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Panel Members and CDC Participants
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Appendix 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Appendix 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Appendix 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Uses of Nucleic Acid Amplification Tests for the Diagnosis of TBplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General Considerations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General Recommendations of the Expert Panel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Recommendations to ACET, CDC, DTBE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Incidence in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reported TB in the US, 2018 Surveillance Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Trends in Tuberculosis 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tuberculosis in the United States, 2018 (Slide Set)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archived Surveillance Reports and Slide Sets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 2018 State and City Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archived State and City Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Professional Resources & Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tools for Healthcare Providersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Interactive Core Curriculum on Tuberculosis: What the Clinician Should Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources for TB Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Centers of Excellence 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publications & Productsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Patient and Public Materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Infection Control & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB in Specific Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Testing & Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccines & Immunizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Guidelinesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Contact Investigations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Control & Elimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Infection Control & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Laboratory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB & HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB in Specific Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Testing & Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccines & Immunizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidelines by Date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Guides & Toolkitsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Aggregate Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC TB Surveillance Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Effective TB Interviewing for Contact Investigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ethnographic Guides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * False-Positive Investigation Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Forging Partnerships to Eliminate TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guide to Application of Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * LTBI: A Guide for Primary Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Testing Products
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Report of Verified Case of Tuberculosis (RVCT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Self-Study Modules
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Contact Investigation Interviewing Skills Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB eDOT Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Understanding the TB Cohort Review Process
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Newslettersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 4, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 3, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 2, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 1, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 6, 2018Â 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 5, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 4, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 3, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 2, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 1, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 5, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 4, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 3, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 2, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 1, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 5, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 4, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 3, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 2, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 1, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pamphlets, Brochures, Bookletsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Questions and Answers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Patient Education Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tuberculosis â Get the Facts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tuberculosis â The Connection between TB and HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 12-Dose Regimen for Latent TB Infection-Patient Education Brochure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Postersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Test Wall Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * World TB Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Think TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stop TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports & Articlesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWRs)_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * DTBE Authored Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tuberculosis Laboratory Aggregate Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Slide Setsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epidemiology of Tuberculosis Among Non-U.S.ââBorn Persons in the United States, 1993â2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Self-Study Modules on Tuberculosis, 1-5 Slide Sets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * The Tuberculosis (TB) in Correctional Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facilitator Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Introduction to TB Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epidemiology of Tuberculosis in Correctional Facilities, United States, 1993-2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevention and Control of Tuberculosis in Correctional and Detention Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidelines for Preventing the Transmission of M. TB in Health care Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Investigation of Contacts of Persons with Infectious TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epidemiology of Pediatric Tuberculosis in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Targeted Tuberculosis Testing and Treatment of Latent Tuberculosis Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Electronic Tools & Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Web-Based Courses & Webinarsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB 101 for Health Care Workersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * TB 101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Interactive Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Program Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Content Syndication
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Social Media Graphics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Customizable Take on TB Infographic with Instructions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Events
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * World TB Dayplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * U.S. TB Championsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2020 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2019 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2018 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2017 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Supporting TB Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Building Partnerships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Expanding Testing and Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Focusing on Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Maximizing Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State TB Control Offices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Usplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mission Statement and Activitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * DTBE Strategic Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * National TB Program Objectives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Organization Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Advisory Groupsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Federal TB Task Force

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

