https://www.cdc.gov/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_18/tbnotes-2.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_18/tbnotes-2.htm    
                Description: Newsletters 02, 2018, Publications &amp; Products,  TB,  CDC    
                Keywords: tuberculosis, CDC, tb, t.b., t b, t.b, dtbe, USA, mycobacterium, division of tuberculosis elimination, Newsletters, 2018, Publications & Products, TB    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Tuberculosis (TB)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# TB NOTES

Minus

Related Pages

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_16/images/tbnotes-header.jpg)

**TB Notes 2** **2018**

### Notes from the Director

Dear Colleague:

One of the most important events for people working in tuberculosis (TB)
elimination is World TB Day. World TB Day is observed annually on March 24, to
commemorate Dr. Robert Koch's announcement of his discovery of Mycobacterium
tuberculosis, the bacillus that causes TB. On March 24, and the days leading
up to it, CDC and many others share successes in TB prevention and control and
raise awareness of the challenges that hinder our progress. The U.S. theme for
World TB Day 2018 is "Wanted: Leaders for a TB Free United States. We can make
history. End TB." The Division of Tuberculosis Elimination (DTBE) World TB Day
activities highlight our past achievements, present efforts, and future
aspirations.

A total of 9,093 TB cases were reported in the United States in 2017 according
to preliminary data from the CDC National TB Surveillance System. This 2017
provisional case count is the lowest number of TB cases on record in the
United States; however, our current strategies will not be sufficient to reach
the goal of TB elimination in the United States. Eliminating TB in the United
States will require a sustained effort to control TB disease, and expanding
testing and treatment of latent TB infection to prevent the development of TB
disease.

Achieving TB elimination will also require the continued hard work and
dedication from those working on the state and local levels. One of the goals
of this year's World TB Day campaign is to highlight this great work through
the 2018 CDC U.S TB Elimination Champions project. In keeping with this year's
theme, we are highlighting organizations and individuals who are leading the
effort to collaborate with public health partners, health care providers, and
community organizations. We encourage you to read and share their stories with
your partners and colleagues. Additional CDC resources are available in
English and Spanish, including up-to-date information on TB, promotional
materials, and other tools you can use as part of your World TB Day events and
activities.

I hope all of you will have a chance to plan or take part in your own World TB
Day activities. Thank you for your work and commitment to eliminate TB in the
United States.

Philip LoBue, MD, FACP, FCCP  
Director  
Division of Tuberculosis Elimination  
National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention

Open All Close All

Communications, Education, and Behavioral Studies Branch Updates

**World TB Day Resources**

![End TB](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_18/images/End_TB-medium.png)

March 24 is World TB Day and this year's theme is "Wanted: Leaders for a TB-
Free United States. We can make history. End TB." CDC's World TB Day website
is a one-stop-shop for resources and information. U.S. World TB Day posters
are available in two different sizes (8.5×11Cdc-pdf and 11×17Cdc-pdf) to
download and print. Graphics in a variety of sizes are also available for use
in digital and print materials. Check out all the activities happening across
the United States on the World TB Day Activities Map.

We encourage everyone to sign up for our World TB Day Thunderclap. Thunderclap
is a tool that lets a message be heard when we say it together. Think of it as
an "online flash mob." Join CDC's World TB Day Thunderclap, and share the End
TB message March 23 at 2:00 p.m. EDT/11:00 a.m. PDT, spreading an idea through
Facebook, Twitter, and Tumblr that cannot be ignored. We need 100 supporters
for the Thunderclap to take effect before March 23.

**_Submitted by Leeanna Allen, MPH, DTBE_**



**TB in Corrections**

![TB_in_Corrections](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_18/images/TB_in_Corrections-
small.jpg)

Are you a TB Correctional Liaison, program manager, or TB controller concerned
about TB in correctional settings?

**TB in Corrections: Improving Collaborations, Reaching toward Elimination**

will be a breakout session on Wednesday, May 23 at the 2018 National TB
Conference in Palm Springs, CA. The National Tuberculosis Controllers
Association/National Tuberculosis Nurse Coalition (NTCA/NTNC) Corrections
Committee and California TB Controllers Association have designed the session
to provide information including:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Workgroup strategies for the implementation of Interferon Gamma Release Assays (IGRAs) and 12-Dose Regimen for Latent TB Infection (3HP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Updates from U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Information on correctional liaisons and their role in improving communication and collaboration with correctional facilities

If you are unable to attend the session and are interested in learning more
about TB in corrections, please visit the NTCA/NTNC Corrections Committee
websiteExternal.

**_Submitted by Molly Dowling, MPH, DTBE_**

** **

**TB Patient Education Brochure**

This past month, DeKalb County (GA) Public Library staff and volunteers helped
the Communications, Education, and Behavioral Studies Branch (CEBSB) by
reviewing and providing input on a draft TB patient education brochure. The
brochure is designed to help people who have latent TB infection make a
decision about taking treatment to prevent TB disease.

![Laura
Hauser](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_18/images/Laura_Hauser.jpg)

Participants provided valuable feedback on the readability, clarity, and
layout of the draft material. The results from this activity help CEBSB staff
ensure the brochure's alignment with health literacy principles, and improve
its effectiveness in promoting shared decision-making between patients and
health care providers so patients can make an informed decision about their TB
treatment options.

CEBSB would like to thank Laura Hauser, the Literacy Services Officer, for the
DeKalb County Public Library, for taking the lead in arranging the interviews.
Ms. Hauser's dedication and leadership in literacy services for almost two
decades promotes a strong, literate DeKalb community, and her willingness to
collaborate with DTBE is greatly appreciated.

_**Submitted by John Parmer, PhD, MPH, DTBE**_

Surveillance, Epidemiology, and Outbreak Investigations Branch Updates

![TB Outbreaks](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_18/images/TB_Outbreaks-
medium.jpg)

In recognition of World TB Day, DTBE has published preliminary TB surveillance
data for 2017, documenting 9,093 new cases of TB in the United States in 2017.
This is the lowest case count on record and corresponds with a TB rate of 2.8
per 100,000 persons, a rate 2.5% lower than reported in 2016. This decrease is
consistent with the modest decline seen over the past several years. Public
health priorities for TB elimination in the United States include developing
comprehensive and innovative approaches to diagnosing, treating, and
monitoring latent TB infection; continued engagement by the United States in
global TB control efforts; and sustained efforts to prevent TB transmission in
the United States, particularly in congregate settings.

_**Submitted by Rebekah J. Stewart, MSN, MPH, DTBE; Clarisse A. Tsang, MPH,
DTBE**_

Laboratory Branch Updates

 **TB Laboratory Services in Puerto Rico After Hurricane Maria**

On September 20, 2017, Hurricane Maria made landfall in Puerto Rico, as a
Category 4 storm, with sustained winds of 155 mph and gusts up to 190 mph
destroying roads and bridges, causing flooding and landslides, and destroying
the island's power grid and telecommunication system. Hurricane Maria was the
strongest hurricane in PR in 80 years, with estimated losses of more than 95
billion dollars. The Puerto Rico Department of Health (PRDOH) facilities,
including the PRDOH Institute of Laboratories in San Juan and the island's
health system, suffered significant damage. The Puerto Rico TB laboratory's
biological safety cabinets were damaged and with the loss of power, were
inoperable. Reagents, equipment, kits, and specimens were also damaged.

On September 25, within five days of the hurricane, plans were developed to
assess program and laboratory damages. With over 500 open hurricane shelters
and concerns regarding the risk of transmission, it was crucial for TB
laboratory services to be restored. Conference calls were held with DTBE to
explore available options to support the PRDOH TB laboratory. With assistance
from the DTBE Laboratory Branch and Field Services Branch; CDC's Emergency
Operations Center; CDC Foundation; and Association of Public Health
Laboratories, a shipping logistics plan was developed. TB specimens were
shipped from Puerto Rico to CDC, a triage site for shipment of specimens to
Georgia, Florida, and Virginia public health laboratories (PHLs), to support
diagnostic and confirmatory testing. Between October 2017 and early February
2018, PRDOH has received, packaged, and shipped 231 TB specimens to CDC for
referral to the three state PHLs that tested and reported results efficiently
using communication strategies of fax and secure File Transfer Protocol
(sFTP).

With the assistance and support from many partners, Puerto Rico has been able
to overcome challenges and implement a short-term plan to ensure prompt
identification of infectious TB patients, thus reducing the risk of
transmission and continuing to offer patient care and public health
interventions.

This work is highlighted in the MMWR article _,Initial Public Health
Laboratory Response After Hurricane Maria -- Puerto Rico, 2017. _The Georgia,
Virginia, and Florida public health laboratories have been recognized as 2018
CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions for their work.

_**Submitted by Olga Joglar, MHSA, DTBE**_

Clinical Research Branch Updates

 **The Latest News from the TB Trials Consortium (TBTC)**

TBTC Study 31External (also known as ACTG A5349; "Rifapentine-containing
treatment shortening regimens for pulmonary tuberculosis: A randomized, open-
label, controlled phase 3 clinical trial") continues to enroll. As of December
7, 2017, the study had 1,522 participants, 61% of target enrollment. The AIDS
Clinical Trials Group (ACTG) network is collaborating with TBTC, contributing
substantially to enrollment. Twenty-two ACTG sites and 9 TBTC sites are open
for enrollment. Study 31 is evaluating a novel 4-month regimen for active TB
based on the use of daily, high-dose rifapentine.

TBTC Study 32External ("Prospective, randomized, blinded Phase 2
pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic study of the efficacy and tolerability of
levofloxacin in combination with optimized background regimen (OBR) for the
treatment of MDR-TB; Opti-Q") was implemented in sites in Cape Town, South
Africa, and in Lima, Peru. Enrollment and follow-up for the study are
complete. The study is currently in the analysis phase. Last month an article
on the trial design was published in Trials:

Bouton, T. C., Phillips, P. P., Mitnick, C. D., Peloquin, C. A., Eisenach, K.,
Patientia, R. F., Diacon, A. H. (2017).  
An optimized background regimen design to evaluate the contribution of
levofloxacin to multidrug-resistant tuberculosis treatment regimens: study
protocol for a randomized controlled trial.External Trials, 18(1), 563.

The main report from TBTC Study 33External ("An evaluation of adherence to
LTBI treatment with 12 doses of once weekly rifapentine and isoniazid given as
self-administered versus directly-observed therapy: iAdhere") has also been
recently published in the Annals of Internal Medicine.

Belknap R, Holland D, Feng PJ, Millet JP, Cayla JA, Martinson NA, Wright A,
Chen MP, Moro RN, Scott NA, Arevalo B, Miro JM, Villarino ME, Weiner M,
Borisov AS; TB Trials Consortium iAdhere Study Team. Self-administered Versus
Directly Observed Once-Weekly Isoniazid and Rifapentine Treatment of Latent
Tuberculosis Infection: A Randomized Trial.External Ann Intern Med. 2017 Nov
7. doi: 10.7326/M17-1150. [Epub ahead of print]. PMID: 29114781.

**_Submitted by Barbara DeCausey, MPH, MBA, DTBE_**

Data Management, Statistics, and Evaluation Branch Updates

**Program Evaluation News and Updates**

Meet the DMSEB Program Evaluation and Health Economics Team!

![DMSEB Health Economics
Team](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_18/images/DMSEB_Health_Economics_Team-
medium.jpg)

The Mission of the DTBE Program Evaluation and Health Economics Team is to
collaborate with internal and external partners to identify and promote the
use of the best available evidence for the planning and implementation of TB
elimination strategies. The team strives to support the program evaluation
efforts of grantees for the CDC TB Cooperative Agreements, identify evidence-
based practices and policies for TB control through conducting health services
research, and develop tools to build professional knowledge and capacity for
program evaluation and applied health economics. The team consists of seven
full time staff.

Our TB Program Evaluation Consultants provide support to 61 grantees on their
Program Evaluation plans.

_Awal Khan (aek5@cdc.gov)_ is the Program Evaluation Consultant for AL, AR,
Baltimore, DC DE, FL, GA, LA, MD, MS, NC, PA, Philadelphia, SC, TN, PR, VA,
VI, WV. Awal also serves as the DTBE Health Equity Coordinator.

_Rachel Yelk Woodruff (ryelkwoodruff@cdc.gov)_ is the Program Evaluation
Consultant for AL, AZ, CA, Houston, FL, Los Angeles, MA, NM, RI, San Diego,
San Francisco. Rachel also serves as the CDC Technical Advisor for the TB
Program Evaluator's Network (TB PEN) and prepares the annual State Indicators
Report.

_Kai Young (kyoung2@cdc.gov)_ is the Program Evaluation Consultant for Chicago
IA, IL, IN, KS, KY, MI, MN, MO, NE, OH, OK, ND, SD, WI. Kai is also involved
in the management of the National TB Indicators Project (NTIP) and the Funding
Formula.

_Laura Vonnahme (lvonnahme@cdc.gov)_ is the Program Evaluation Consultant for
CO, CT, ID, ME, MT, NH, NJ, NY, NYC, NV, OR,, UT, VT, WA, WY. Laura also
manages the data collection and monitoring of TB contact investigation
activities through the Aggregated Reports for Program Evaluation (ARPE).

_Maureen Kolasa (mkolasa@cdc.gov)_ is the Program Evaluation Consultant for
AK, HI, AS, FM, GU, MH, MP AND PW. She also serves as the Program Evaluation
and Health Economics Team Lead.

_Garrett Asay (GBeelerAsay@cdc.gov)_ is the team's lead health economist. He
is currently working on the cost effectiveness of electronic technologies to
remotely monitor TB treatment, targeted testing and treatment for latent TB
infection, and the utilization and cost of TB diagnostic tests.

_Suzanne Marks (smarks@cdc.gov)_ is a senior epidemiologist with expertise in
health economics. She is currently leading DTBE's involvement in the
CDC/NCHHSTP Epidemiologic and Economic Modeling Agreement (NEEMA). Her wide
range of health services research efforts include research on drug resistant
TB, HIV/TB, and the cost and cost-effectiveness of TB diagnosis and treatment.

The Program Evaluation and Health Economics team strives to be an effective
and useful resource within CDC and by external partners.

_**Submitted by Maureen Kolasa, BSN, MPH, DTBE**_

New CDC Publications

 **January 2018**

Click ES, Murithi W, Ouma GS, McCarthy K, Willby M, Musau S, Alexander H,
Pevzner E, Posey J, Cain KP. Detection of Apparent Cell-free M. tuberculosis
DNA from Plasma.External Sci Rep 2018 Jan 12; 8(1):645. doi:
10.1038/s41598-017-17683-6. PMID: 29330384.

**February 2018**

Beavers SF, Pascopella L, Davidow AL, Mangan JM, Hirsch-Moverman YR, Golub JE,
Blumberg HM, Webb RM, Royce RA, Buskin SE, Leonard MK, Weinfurter PC, Belknap
RW, Hughes SE, Warkentin JV, Welbel SF, Miller TL, Kundipati SR, Lauzardo M,
Barry PM, Katz DJ, Garrett DO, Graviss EA, Flood JM; Tuberculosis
Epidemiologic Studies Consortium. Tuberculosis Mortality in the United States:
Epidemiology and Prevention Opportunities.External Ann Am Thorac Soc 2018 Feb
28. doi: 10.1513/AnnalsATS.201705-405OC. [Epub ahead of print.] PMID:
29490150.

Moro RN, Scott NA, Vernon A, Tepper NK, Goldberg SV, Schwartzman K, Leung CC,
Schluger NW, Belknap RW, Chaisson RE, Narita M, Machado ES, Lopez M, Sanchez
J, Villarino ME, Sterling TR. Exposure to Latent Tuberculosis Treatment during
Pregnancy: The PREVENT TB and the iAdhere TrialsExternal. Ann Am Thorac Soc
2018 Feb 2. doi: 10.1513/AnnalsATS.201704-326OC. [Epub ahead of print.] PMID:
29393655.

Mullins J, Lobato MN, Bemis K, Sosa L. Spatial clusters of latent tuberculous
infection, Connecticut, 2010-2014External. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2018 Feb
1;22(2):165-170. doi: 10.5588/ijtld.17.0223. PMID: 29506612.

Weiner M, Gelfond,J Johnson-Pais TL, Engle M, Peloquin CA, Johnson JL,
Sizemore EE, Mac Kenzie WR; Pharmacokinetics/Pharmacodynamics Group of
Tuberculosis Trials Consortium. Elevated Plasma Moxifloxacin Concentrations
and _SLCO1B1_ g.-11187G>A Polymorphism in Adults with Pulmonary
TuberculosisExternal. Antimicrob Agents Chemother 2018 Feb 20. pii:
AAC.01802-17. doi: 10.1128/AAC.01802-17. [Epub ahead of print.] PMID:
29463526.

**March 2018**

Althomsons SP, Hill AN, Harrist AV, France AM, Powell KM, Posey JE, Cowan LS,
Navin TR. Statistical Method to Detect Tuberculosis Outbreaks among Endemic
Clusters in a Low-Incidence SettingExternal. Emerg Infect Dis 2018
Mar;24(3):573-575. doi: 10.3201/eid2403.171613. PMID: 29460749.

Chorba T. Peace, Liberty, Mycobacteria, and Tuberculosis Mortality. Emerg
Infect Dis 2018 Mar; 24(3):611-2.

Concepcion-Acevedo J, Patel A, Luna-Pinto C, et al. Initial Public Health
Laboratory Response After Hurricane Maria -- Puerto Rico, 2017. MMWR Morb
Mortal Wkly Rep 2018;67:333-336\. DOI:
http://dx.doi.org/10.15585/mmwr.mm6711a5External.

Stewart RJ, Tsang CA, Pratt RH, Price SF, Langer AJ. Tuberculosis -- United
States, 2017. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2018;67:317-323\. DOI:
http://dx.doi.org/10.15585/mmwr.mm6711a2External.

World TB Day --March 24, 2018. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2018;67:317. DOI:
http://dx.doi.org/10.15585/mmwr.mm6711a1External

Page last reviewed: January 12, 2018

Content source: Division of Tuberculosis Elimination

home Tuberculosis

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Basic TB Factsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How TB Spreads
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Latent TB Infection and TB Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Risk Factors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Exposure to TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB & HIV Coinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB and Diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Terms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Personal Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kristi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Laura
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kelcie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tenzin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mildred
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Shaka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kelly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kim
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emily
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jerry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nauman
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nicole
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Thomas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Natalie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Esteban and Danielle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Deo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kenni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Rosalie and Faith
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Rick and Francene
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Santos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mabruka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Liliana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Martha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sarah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Testing & Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Who Should be Tested
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Testing for TB Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Testing in BCG-Vaccinated Persons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Screening and Testing of Health Care Personnel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Testing During Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diagnosing latent TB infection and TB disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Deciding When to Treat Latent TB Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment Regimens for Latent TB Infection (LTBI)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment for TB Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Adverse Events
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Treatment of Persons Living with HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Treatment and Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Treatment for Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Epidemiologic Studies Consortiumplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Research Projects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Trials Consortiumplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Study Descriptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Background
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Behavioral & Social Science Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Health Care Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Infection Control in Health Care Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources for TB Screening and Testing of Health Care Personnelplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB in Specific Populationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * African-American Communityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stop TB in the African-American Community Summit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Background
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Slideset
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Asian Community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Correctional Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Homelessness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * International Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory Informationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Drug Susceptibility Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * False-Positive Investigation Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Interim Laboratory Biosafety Guidance for XDR _Mycobacterium_ tuberculosis strains
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Model Performance Evaluation Program (MPEP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Rapid Molecular Testing to Detect Drug-Resistant TB in the USplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Executive Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Introduction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Background on Tests for Molecular Detection of DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General Considerations and Principles for a Molecular DR Testing Service
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Possible Scenarios and Scope of Testing for a Molecular DR Testing Service
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Research Needs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General Recommendations of the Expert Panel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Communication Plan for the Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * References
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Panel Members and CDC Participants
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Appendix 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Appendix 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Appendix 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Uses of Nucleic Acid Amplification Tests for the Diagnosis of TBplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General Considerations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General Recommendations of the Expert Panel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Recommendations to ACET, CDC, DTBE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Incidence in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reported TB in the US, 2018 Surveillance Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Trends in Tuberculosis 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tuberculosis in the United States, 2018 (Slide Set)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archived Surveillance Reports and Slide Sets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 2018 State and City Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archived State and City Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Professional Resources & Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tools for Healthcare Providersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Interactive Core Curriculum on Tuberculosis: What the Clinician Should Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources for TB Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Centers of Excellence 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publications & Productsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Patient and Public Materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Infection Control & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB in Specific Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Testing & Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccines & Immunizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Guidelinesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Contact Investigations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Control & Elimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Infection Control & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Laboratory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB & HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB in Specific Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Testing & Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccines & Immunizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidelines by Date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Guides & Toolkitsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Aggregate Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC TB Surveillance Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Effective TB Interviewing for Contact Investigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ethnographic Guides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * False-Positive Investigation Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Forging Partnerships to Eliminate TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guide to Application of Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * LTBI: A Guide for Primary Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Testing Products
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Report of Verified Case of Tuberculosis (RVCT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Self-Study Modules
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Contact Investigation Interviewing Skills Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB eDOT Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Understanding the TB Cohort Review Process
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Newslettersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 4, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 3, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 2, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 1, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 6, 2018Â 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 5, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 4, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 3, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 2, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 1, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 5, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 4, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 3, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 2, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 1, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 5, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 4, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 3, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 2, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 1, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pamphlets, Brochures, Bookletsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Questions and Answers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Patient Education Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tuberculosis â Get the Facts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tuberculosis â The Connection between TB and HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 12-Dose Regimen for Latent TB Infection-Patient Education Brochure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Postersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Test Wall Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * World TB Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Think TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stop TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports & Articlesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWRs)_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * DTBE Authored Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tuberculosis Laboratory Aggregate Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Slide Setsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epidemiology of Tuberculosis Among Non-U.S.ââBorn Persons in the United States, 1993â2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Self-Study Modules on Tuberculosis, 1-5 Slide Sets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * The Tuberculosis (TB) in Correctional Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facilitator Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Introduction to TB Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epidemiology of Tuberculosis in Correctional Facilities, United States, 1993-2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevention and Control of Tuberculosis in Correctional and Detention Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidelines for Preventing the Transmission of M. TB in Health care Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Investigation of Contacts of Persons with Infectious TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epidemiology of Pediatric Tuberculosis in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Targeted Tuberculosis Testing and Treatment of Latent Tuberculosis Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Electronic Tools & Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Web-Based Courses & Webinarsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB 101 for Health Care Workersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * TB 101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Interactive Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Program Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Content Syndication
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Social Media Graphics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Customizable Take on TB Infographic with Instructions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Events
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * World TB Dayplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * U.S. TB Championsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2020 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2019 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2018 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2017 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Supporting TB Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Building Partnerships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Expanding Testing and Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Focusing on Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Maximizing Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State TB Control Offices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Usplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mission Statement and Activitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * DTBE Strategic Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * National TB Program Objectives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Organization Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Advisory Groupsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Federal TB Task Force

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about TB Notes Newsletter page, enter your email
address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit





**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

