https://www.cdc.gov/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_17/tbnotes-2.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_17/tbnotes-2.html    
                Description: TB Notes contains news about the Division of Tuberculosis Eliminationâs activities and highlights from state and local TB programs across the country.  TB Notes 2, 2017.  Provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)    
                Keywords: tb, tuberculosis, CDC, publications, products, newsletters, TB Notes, state, local, 2017    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Tuberculosis (TB)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# TB NOTES

Minus

Related Pages

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_16/images/tbnotes-header.jpg)

**TB Notes 2** **2017**

### Notes from the Director

Dear Colleague:

In March, the Division of Tuberculosis Elimination (DTBE) staff members were
involved in a variety of events in conjunction with World TB Day, including
the World TB Day Capitol Hill briefing in Washington D.C., and the CDC World
TB Day commemoration in Atlanta.

In recognition of World TB Day, DTBE released preliminary TB surveillance data
for the United States. According to 2016 provisional dataExternal, a total of
9,287 TB cases were reported in the United States in 2016, and the overall
annual TB incidence decreased slightly from 3.0 in 2015 to 2.9 cases per
100,000 in 2016. Epidemiologic modeling suggests if the rate of decline
continues at this pace, it will be impossible to reach the goal of U.S. TB
elimination in this century. Expanding targeted testing and treatment of
latent TB infection is key to eliminating TB disease in the United States. It
is also important to maintain current TB control activities, in order to find
and treat people with TB disease.

The Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis (ACET) held their
meeting in Atlanta, GA on Tuesday, April 11, 2017. That meeting was followed
by the 2017 National TB Conference, sponsored by the National Tuberculosis
Controllers Association (NTCA)External and the Association of Public Health
Laboratories (APHL), held in Atlanta, GA, April 18-21. I hope that many of you
were able to attend and benefit from the important information that was shared
at the 2017 National TB Conference.

As you know, major new efforts are required to incorporate latent TB infection
testing and treatment in public and private health systems. National Center
for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention Center Director Dr.
Jonathan Mermin and I outlined steps towards TB elimination in "Latent
tuberculosis infection: the final frontier of tuberculosis elimination in the
USA," recently published in _The Lancet Infectious Diseases_ External _._

DTBE remains committed to supporting the important work that is being done to
eliminate TB in communities around the United States.

Philip LoBue, MD, FACP, FCCP  
Director,  
Division of Tuberculosis Elimination  
National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention

Open All Close All

2017 National TB Conference

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_17/images/2017_TB_Conference.jpg)



The 2017 National TB Conference, sponsored by the National Tuberculosis
Controllers Association in collaboration with the Association of Public Health
Laboratories, was held in Atlanta, GA, April 18-21. The conference highlighted
innovative work in TB prevention, management, and care across the country. It
also paved a way forward as TB professionals came together to discuss their
challenges and share best practices on how to achieve TB elimination in the
United States.

Conference attendees heard from TB survivors, clinicians, nurses,
epidemiologists, TB controllers, and many others. DTBE Director, Dr. Philip
LoBue, presented the _State of TB Elimination in the U.S.,_ noting all that
has been accomplished, but also all the work we still need to do to achieve TB
elimination. Dr. Kelly Holland inspired us with his story of surviving TB, and
called us to action to understand TB through the eyes of our patients. We also
heard about the work of our colleagues in CDC's Global Migration and
Quarantine, public health laboratories, and the Regional Training and Medical
Consultation Centers (RTMCC).

Innovative work being done with electronic directly observed therapy (eDOT)
and the _Massachusetts Model of Community-Based TB Prevention_ demonstration
project were presented. The breakout sessions provided an opportunity to have
informative presentations and discussions, including DTBE staff presenting
_Should Latent TB Infection be reportable_ and _How Can TB Elimination Models
Inform Program Strategies Today._ Thank you to everyone who planned,
presented, and attended the conference.

_Submitted by Sloane Bowman, MPH, DTBE_

Surveillance, Epidemiology, and Outbreak Investigations Branch Updates

 **Medical and Pharmacy Claims Data: A Window into TB Prevention Activity in
the Private Sector**

Private sector involvement in treatment for latent TB infection (LTBI) will be
increasingly important in the drive toward TB elimination. To assess TB
prevention activity in the private sector, a researcher affiliated with the
Tuberculosis Epidemiologic Studies Consortium (TBESC) has examined a large
sample of commercial insurance claims data to determine (1) the extent of LTBI
testing and treatment, (2) whether it targets high-risk patients, and (3) how
treatment completion compares with that in the public health sector.

Erica L. Stockbridge, PhD., is a researcher at TBESC member site University of
North Texas Health Science Center, and a senior health analyst at Magellan
Health, Inc. Dr. Stockbridge used de-identified medical and pharmacy claims
data for individuals randomly sampled from a database that includes health
services use of 4 million commercially insured people aged less than 65. All
sampled individuals had at least 36 months of continuous coverage from April
2010 through March 2013 for both medical and pharmacy services. Basic
epidemiologic information included sex, 5 year age group, type of commercial
insurance, and Census division.

Among sampled individuals, 4.3% were tested at least once with the tuberculin
skin test (TST) or a blood-based interferon-gamma release assay (IGRA). The
probability of testing was highest among individuals at greatest risk of LTBI
or progression to TB disease (contact with a TB case, 71.6%; receipt of
immunosuppressive medications, 34.4%; HIV positive, 26.7%). LTBI testing was
most common among age groups associated with school and college entry. Among
1,074 individuals who started LTBI treatment with isoniazid, 46.3% completed
at least six months and 22.6% completed at least nine months of treatment.

Treatment completion was lower among insurance plans that restricted patient
choice of physician. Prescription size also influenced treatment completion.
Individuals who received initial medication supplies of 60 days or greater
were more likely to complete a nine-month regimen compared to those who
received 30 day supplies.

This valuable research shows that LTBI testing and treatment is occurring in
the private sector. This knowledge provides public health stakeholders insight
into private sector TB prevention testing and treatment. The findings will
help public health professionals in their work with private providers to
increase TB targeted testing and treatment.



**Upcoming TBESC Studies**

TBESC is partnering with the Tuberculosis Trials Consortium (TBTC) for Part
D/Study 37, a clinical trial to assess the safety, tolerability, and
effectiveness of rifapentine given daily for latent TB Infection. This study
is expected to begin in the fall of 2017. A one day training for TBESC and
TBTC site staff will be held May 17, 2017 in Atlanta, GA in conjunction with
the annual TBESC meeting May 18-19, 2017.

_Submitted by Kiana Woods, MBA, MEd, DTBE_

Communications, Education, and Behavioral Studies Branch Updates

 **World TB Day 2017**

A Recipe for a "Sweet" World TB Day!

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_17/images/2017_World_TB_Day2_1.jpg)

What do you get when you mix creativity, hard work, and fifteen pounds of
sugar? The Communications, Education, and Behavioral Studies Branch (CEBSB)
found out as they baked, decorated, bagged, and delivered over 200 cookies to
TB colleagues on World TB Day.

Using over 90 hours of their own personal time and resources, CEBSB staff
created works of edible art in the familiar rod-shape of _Mycobacterium
tuberculosis_ , which they iced and decorated with menacing, threatening, and
even a few goofy faces. Other cookies were painstakingly iced using a custom-
made stencil of the "End TB" logo, reflecting the 2017 World TB Day theme,
"Unite to End TB." The delectable desserts were then placed into gift bags
with a card expressing appreciation for the recipient's work in eliminating
TB, and hand-delivered to the delight of colleagues around CDC.

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_17/images/2017_World_TB_Day2.jpg)



The treats have become an annual tradition for World TB Day, serving as a
delicious way to recognize the progress towards TB elimination. Keep reading
TB Notes to find out what CEBSB will cook up next year!





_Submitted by Leeanna Allen, MPH, DTBE_



Laboratory Branch Updates

 **CDC/DTBE Announcement of Plans for Universal Whole Genome Sequencing**

The CDC Division of Tuberculosis Elimination, in collaboration with colleagues
in the CDC Antimicrobial Resistance Coordination and Strategy Unit, will be
supporting the use of Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS) for all new isolates of
_Mycobacterium tuberculosis_ referred for genotyping beginning in spring 2018.
The use of WGS is an exciting advancement that enhances the discriminatory
power for cluster identification and investigation, which should allow for a
more focused investment of public health interventions. All isolates will
undergo both conventional genotyping as well as WGS for a period of 3 years.
After this transition period, prospective WGS will become the standard method
performed to identify TB clusters. Currently, plans are being made for capture
of this information in TB GIMS; additional details regarding the timeframe and
mechanism for access to these and other data (e.g., retrospective WGS analysis
for clusters of concern) will be provided in the future.

Additionally, WGS allows for the surveillance of molecular determinants
associated with drug resistance. Data will be captured for the purposes of
surveillance. Molecular surveillance of drug resistance does not replace the
CDC Molecular Detection Drug Resistance (MDDR) service which will continue to
be available for rapid analysis of isolates and sediments. To support the
infrastructure required for universal WGS, up to two public health
laboratories will be awarded funds for this activity through competitive
selection as described in the Epidemiology and Laboratory Capacity funding
opportunity announcement (K3- Antimicrobial Resistance Regional Laboratory
Network) that was recently released. The selected laboratories will operate as
part of the Antimicrobial Resistance Laboratory Network.



**New Online Training Tool:** **Landscape and Language of Molecular
Diagnostics for TB Drug Resistance** External

A new addition has been made to the publically available online training tool,
Essentials for the Mycobacteriology Laboratory: Promoting Quality
PracticesExternal. This online training tool is a series of complimentary,
interactive web-based training modules. The new module "Landscape and Language
of Molecular Diagnostics for TB Drug ResistanceExternal" was specifically
designed to provide TB control staff, clinicians, and nurses a brief overview
of the basic principles of molecular biology and test platforms used for
molecular testing of _Mycobacterium tuberculosis._ The module provides
information for understanding how mutations are associated with drug
resistance and what laboratory reporting language might be used to describe
results. Access to all the modules and other valuable TB resources is
available through the Association of Public Health Laboratories (APHL) TB
homepageExternal.



**Retirement of Frances Tyrrell, MPH, MT (ASCP), SM --Laboratory Consultant**

Frances Tyrrell, CDC DTBE Laboratory Consultant retired on April 28, 2017.
Frances joined the Laboratory Capacity Team (LCT) in 2009 after working for
the Georgia Department of Health for over 19 years in the mycobacteriology
laboratory and in clinical laboratory settings. Frances has been an integral
member of the DTBE Laboratory Branch through contribution of her expertise in
mycobacteriology and public health, as well as her passion for data analysis.
She has served as a trusted partner for public health laboratories, and has
worked closely with many colleagues to improve services and identify best
practices. As a laboratory consultant, Frances has been enthusiastically
engaged in site visits, cooperative agreement reviews, operational research
projects, and educational training activities. Frances is an independent
thinker and has strived over the years to build a legacy of integrity and
commitment. Her service and dedication to CDC, TB, and public health have been
greatly appreciated. Frances plans to travel, do more bicycling, and spend
more time with family after returning to her home state of Michigan.

_Submitted by Stephanie Johnson, MS, DTBE_

New CDC Publications

 **January 2017**

Castro KG, Marks SM, Hill AN, Chen MP, Miramontes R, Winston CA, LoBue PA. In
reply. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2017 Jan 1;21(1):120-121. doi:
10.5588/ijtld.16.0708-2. No abstract available. PMID: 28157476.

Hannah HA, Miramontes R, Gandhi NR. Sociodemographic and Clinical Risk Factors
Associated With Tuberculosis Mortality in the United States,
2009-2013.External Public Health Rep. 2017 Jan 1:33354917698117. doi:
10.1177/0033354917698117. [Epub ahead of print]. PMID: 28394707.

Tupasi T, Garfin AM, Mangan JM, Orillaza-Chi R, Naval LC, Balane GI, Basilio
R, Golubkov A, Joson ES, Lew WJ, Lofranco V, Mantala M, Pancho S, Sarol JN,
Blumberg A, Burt D, Kurbatova EV. Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis patients'
views of interventions to reduce treatment loss to follow-up. Int J Tuberc
Lung Dis. 2017 Jan 1;21(1):23-31. https://doi: 10.5588/ijtld.16.0433. PMID:
28157461.

Worrell MC, Kramer M, Yamin A, Ray SM, Goswami ND. Use of Activity Space in a
Tuberculosis Outbreak: Bringing Homeless Persons Into Spatial Analyses. _Open
Forum Infect Dis_ 2017; 4(1): ofw280. doi:
https://doi.org/10.1093/ofid/ofw280External



**February 2017**

Cavanaugh JS, Jou R, Wu MH, Dalton T, Kurbatova E, Ershova J, Cegielski JP;
Global PETTS Investigators. Susceptibilities of MDR Mycobacterium tuberculosis
isolates to unconventional drugs compared with their reported
pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic parameters.External J Antimicrob Chemother.
2017 Feb 20. doi: 10.1093/jac/dkx022. [Epub ahead of print]. PMID: 28333192.



**March 2017**

Alsultan A, Savic R, Dooley KE, Weiner M, Whitworth W, Mac Kenzie WR, Peloquin
CA; Tuberculosis Trials Consortium. Population Pharmacokinetics of
Pyrazinamide in Patients with Tuberculosis.External Antimicrob Agents
Chemother. 2017 Mar 13. pii: AAC.02625-16. doi: 10.1128/AAC.02625-16. [Epub
ahead of print]. PMID: 28289033.

CDC (Schmit KM, Wansaula Z, Pratt R, Price SF, Langer, AJ). Tuberculosis --
United States, 2016. MMWR 2017 March 24; 66(11);289-294\. doi:
http://dx.doi.org/10.15585/mmwr.mm6611a2External.

CDC (Tsang CA, Langer AJ, Navin TR, Armstrong, LR).Tuberculosis Among Foreign-
Born Persons Diagnosed ≥10 Years After Arrival in the United States,
2010-2015. MMWR 2017 March 24; 66(11);295-298\. doi:
http://dx.doi.org/10.15585/mmwr.mm6611a3External.

Chorba T, Jereb J. Keeping It in the Family: the Childhood Burden of
TuberculosisExternal. Emerging Infectious Diseases. 2017 Mar;23(3):561-562.
doi:10.3201/eid2303.AC2303.

Jeffries C, Lobue P, Chorba T, Metchock B, Kashef I. Role of the Health
Department in Tuberculosis Prevention and Control-Legal and Public Health
Considerations.External Microbiol Spectr. 2017 Mar;5(2). doi:
10.1128/microbiolspec.TNMI7-0034-2016. PMID: 28256190.

Marks SM, Mase SR, Bamrah Morris S. Systematic Review, Meta-Analysis, and Cost
Effectiveness of Treatment of Latent Tuberculosis Infection to Reduce
Progression to Multidrug-Resistant Tuberculosis.External Clin Infect Dis. 2017
Mar 14. doi: 10.1093/cid/cix208. [Epub ahead of print]. PMID: 28329197.

Moro RN, Sterling TR, Saukkonen J, Vernon A, Horsburgh CR, Chaisson RE,
Hamilton CD, Villarino ME, Goldberg S. Factors associated with non-completion
of follow-up: 33-month latent tuberculous infection treatment trial.External
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis.External 2017 Mar 1;21(3):286-296. doi:
10.5588/ijtld.16.0469. PMID: 28087928.

Owusu-Edusei K Jr, Stockbridge EL, Winston CA, Kolasa M, Miramontes R.
Tuberculin skin test and interferon-gamma release assay use among privately
insured persons in the United States.External Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2017 Mar
28. doi: 10.5588/ijtld.16.0617. [Epub ahead of print]. PMID: 28351463. DOI:
10.5588/ijtld.16.0617External.

Powell KM, VanderEnde DS, Holland DP, Haddad MB, Yarn B, Yamin AS, Mohamed O,
Sales RF, DiMiceli LE, Burns-Grant G, Reaves EJ, Gardner TJ, Ray SM. Outbreak
of Drug-Resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis Among Homeless People in Atlanta,
Georgia, 2008-2015.External Public Health Rep. 2017 Mar/Apr;132(2):231-240.
doi: 10.1177/0033354917694008. PMID: 28257261.

Scott C, Cavanaugh JS, Silk BJ, Ershova J, Mazurek GH, LoBue PA, Moonan PK.
Comparison of Sputum-Culture Conversion for Mycobacterium bovis and M.
tuberculosis.External Emerg Infect Dis. 2017 Mar;23(3):456-462. doi:
10.3201/eid2303.161916. PMID: 28221125.

Winston CA, Stone ND. Detect to Prevent: Evaluating Testing and Treatment
Practices for Latent Tuberculosis Infection in Long-Term Care
Facilities.External J Am Geriatr Soc. 2017 Mar 17. doi: 10.1111/jgs.14752.
[Epub ahead of print]. No abstract available. PMID: 28306136.



**April 2017**

Owusu-Edusei K, Marks SM, Miramontes R, Stockbridge EL, Winston CA.
Tuberculosis hospitalization expenditures per patient from private health
insurance claims data, 2010-2014.External Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2017 Apr
1;21(4):398-404. doi: 10.5588/ijtld.16.0587. PMID: 28284254.



**May 2017**

Scott C, Mangan J, Tillova Z, Jensen PA, Ahmedov S, Ismoilova J, Trusov A.
Evaluation of the Tuberculosis Infection Control Training Center, Tajikistan,
2014-2015. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2017 May 1;21(5):579-585. doi:
10.5588/ijtld.16.0518. PMID: 28399974.

Wortham JM, Goggin M, Mora C, Vandehey L, Manangan L, Powell KM. Acute kidney
injury during treatment for latent tuberculous infection with rifampin. Int J
Tuberc Lung Dis. 2017 May 1;21(5):596-597. doi: 10.5588/ijtld.17.0003. PMID:
28399977.

Page last reviewed: May 8, 2017

Content source: Division of Tuberculosis Elimination

home Tuberculosis

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Basic TB Factsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How TB Spreads
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Latent TB Infection and TB Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Risk Factors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Exposure to TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB & HIV Coinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB and Diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Terms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Personal Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kristi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Laura
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kelcie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tenzin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mildred
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Shaka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kelly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kim
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emily
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jerry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nauman
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nicole
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Thomas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Natalie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Esteban and Danielle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Deo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kenni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Rosalie and Faith
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Rick and Francene
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Santos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mabruka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Liliana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Martha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sarah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Testing & Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Who Should be Tested
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Testing for TB Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Testing in BCG-Vaccinated Persons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Screening and Testing of Health Care Personnel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Testing During Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diagnosing latent TB infection and TB disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Deciding When to Treat Latent TB Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment Regimens for Latent TB Infection (LTBI)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment for TB Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Adverse Events
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Treatment of Persons Living with HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Treatment and Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Treatment for Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Epidemiologic Studies Consortiumplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Research Projects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Trials Consortiumplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Study Descriptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Background
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Behavioral & Social Science Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Health Care Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Infection Control in Health Care Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources for TB Screening and Testing of Health Care Personnelplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB in Specific Populationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * African-American Communityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stop TB in the African-American Community Summit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Background
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Slideset
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Asian Community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Correctional Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Homelessness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * International Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory Informationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Drug Susceptibility Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * False-Positive Investigation Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Interim Laboratory Biosafety Guidance for XDR _Mycobacterium_ tuberculosis strains
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Model Performance Evaluation Program (MPEP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Rapid Molecular Testing to Detect Drug-Resistant TB in the USplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Executive Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Introduction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Background on Tests for Molecular Detection of DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General Considerations and Principles for a Molecular DR Testing Service
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Possible Scenarios and Scope of Testing for a Molecular DR Testing Service
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Research Needs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General Recommendations of the Expert Panel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Communication Plan for the Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * References
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Panel Members and CDC Participants
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Appendix 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Appendix 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Appendix 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Uses of Nucleic Acid Amplification Tests for the Diagnosis of TBplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General Considerations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General Recommendations of the Expert Panel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Recommendations to ACET, CDC, DTBE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Incidence in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reported TB in the US, 2018 Surveillance Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Trends in Tuberculosis 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tuberculosis in the United States, 2018 (Slide Set)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archived Surveillance Reports and Slide Sets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 2018 State and City Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archived State and City Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Professional Resources & Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tools for Healthcare Providersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Interactive Core Curriculum on Tuberculosis: What the Clinician Should Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources for TB Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB Centers of Excellence 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publications & Productsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Patient and Public Materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Infection Control & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB in Specific Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Testing & Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccines & Immunizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Guidelinesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Contact Investigations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Control & Elimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Infection Control & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Laboratory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB & HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB in Specific Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Testing & Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccines & Immunizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidelines by Date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Guides & Toolkitsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Aggregate Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC TB Surveillance Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Effective TB Interviewing for Contact Investigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ethnographic Guides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * False-Positive Investigation Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Forging Partnerships to Eliminate TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guide to Application of Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * LTBI: A Guide for Primary Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Testing Products
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Report of Verified Case of Tuberculosis (RVCT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Self-Study Modules
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Contact Investigation Interviewing Skills Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB eDOT Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Understanding the TB Cohort Review Process
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Newslettersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 4, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 3, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 2, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 1, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 6, 2018Â 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 5, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 4, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 3, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 2, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 1, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 5, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 4, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 3, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 2, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 1, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 5, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 4, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 3, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 2, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB Notes, No. 1, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pamphlets, Brochures, Bookletsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Questions and Answers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Patient Education Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tuberculosis â Get the Facts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tuberculosis â The Connection between TB and HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 12-Dose Regimen for Latent TB Infection-Patient Education Brochure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Postersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Test Wall Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * World TB Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Think TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stop TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports & Articlesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWRs)_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * DTBE Authored Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tuberculosis Laboratory Aggregate Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Slide Setsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epidemiology of Tuberculosis Among Non-U.S.ââBorn Persons in the United States, 1993â2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Self-Study Modules on Tuberculosis, 1-5 Slide Sets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * The Tuberculosis (TB) in Correctional Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facilitator Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Introduction to TB Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epidemiology of Tuberculosis in Correctional Facilities, United States, 1993-2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevention and Control of Tuberculosis in Correctional and Detention Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidelines for Preventing the Transmission of M. TB in Health care Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Investigation of Contacts of Persons with Infectious TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epidemiology of Pediatric Tuberculosis in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Targeted Tuberculosis Testing and Treatment of Latent Tuberculosis Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Electronic Tools & Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Web-Based Courses & Webinarsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TB 101 for Health Care Workersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * TB 101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Interactive Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Program Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Content Syndication
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Social Media Graphics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Customizable Take on TB Infographic with Instructions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Events
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * World TB Dayplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * U.S. TB Championsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2020 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2019 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2018 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2017 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Supporting TB Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Building Partnerships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Expanding Testing and Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Focusing on Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Maximizing Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State TB Control Offices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Usplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mission Statement and Activitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * DTBE Strategic Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * National TB Program Objectives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Organization Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Advisory Groupsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Federal TB Task Force

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about TB Notes Newsletter page, enter your email
address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit





**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

