https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/heartdefects/screening.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/heartdefects/screening.html    
                Description: Screening for critical congenital heart defects can help identify babies with a critical CHD before they go home from the birth hospital.    
                Keywords: CHDs,  congenital heart defects,  newborn screening,  pulse oximetry screening, CDC Organization, Birth Defects    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Congenital Heart Defects (CHDs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

# Screening for Critical Congenital Heart Defects

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

### Importance of Newborn Screening for Critical Congenital Heart Defects

![Medscape Video ](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/heart-defects-medscape-
video.jpg)

Screening for critical congenital heart defects (critical CHDs) can help
identify some babies with a critical CHD before they go home from the birth
hospital. This allows these babies to be treated early and may prevent
disability or death early in life.

### Number of Babies that Screening Can Help

Some babies with a critical CHD appear healthy at first and may be sent home
before their critical CHD is detected. Newborn screening for critical CHDs is
a tool that works with prenatal diagnosis and physical exams after birth to
improve detection of critical CHDs. The number of babies with an undiagnosed
critical CHD that might be found using pulse oximetry depends on the level of
nursery care and the type of critical CHD, among other factors.1 CDC estimates
that, each year, about 875 more newborns with a critical CHD could be
identified at birth hospitals using pulse oximetry newborn screening, but an
equal number (880 babies) might still be missed each year in the United
States, most of whom will have critical CHD types (coarctation of the aorta or
interrupted aortic arch, tetralogy of Fallot, or transposition of the great
arteries) less likely to be detected through pulse oximetry newborn
screening.2

Jodi's Story

"After a normal pregnancy, Alex was born at 40 weeks via C-section. Everything
seemed fine at first. After some time together, Alex was taken to the nursery
to get cleaned up, but after 3 hours he still was not back with us. Finally,
the pediatrician came in and explained that when a nurse was getting him
dressed to come back to our room, she noticed that his nail beds were turning
blue. So, she screened him using pulse oximetry."

"Not having any idea what he was talking about, I told him that my husband and
I have had asthma since childhood. He assured me that was not the problem and
that they felt it was a problem with his heart. After a brief amount of time
and an echocardiogram, it was determined that Alex had tricuspid atresia with
pulmonary atresia."

![Jodi](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/jodi-story.jpg)

"During the first few months of his life, Alex underwent two open heart
surgeries, and he will need a third surgery. But now, Alex is an active and
playful toddler. He is walking, running, talking, eating, laughing and trying
to toilet train himself! He also enjoys reading and playing with his sister.
Even though we have had a roller coaster of emotions, I cannot imagine how
different our lives would be if that nurse did not notice the change in his
color and if his oxygen level was not checked."

### Importance of Critical CHD Diagnosis _Before_ Leaving the Hospital

When babies with an undiagnosed critical CHD leave the hospital, they might
have very serious problems, such as cardiac collapse (when a baby's heart
stops working properly and can't get oxygen to the body) or death within the
first few days or weeks they are at home.

If a critical CHD is diagnosed before a baby leaves the hospital, doctors can
provide care and treatment that may prevent later health problems or even
death. They can also better plan treatment for a baby with a critical CHD,
helping the baby have surgery or other treatment when he or she is stable, not
in an emergency situation. Babies that have a critical CHD diagnosed after
they leave the hospital tend to be admitted to the hospital more frequently,
spend more time in the hospital, and have higher hospital costs compared with
babies that had a critical CHD diagnosed in the hospital.3 Mandated critical
CHD screening using pulse oximetry reduces early infant deaths from critical
CHD by 33%, or 120 early infant deaths from critical CHD averted per year.4

### Costs

There are always costs when screening tests are done. The cost of critical CHD
screening depends on many factors, such as the number of births in a hospital,
the type of equipment used, and how long the screening takes. The costs of
critical CHD screening is about $5 to $14 for each newborn baby screened.5-7

Other costs, in addition to those of the screen itself, are important as well.
Babies that fail the critical CHD pulse oximetry screen will need to have
extra medical tests, might spend more time in the hospital, or be transferred
to another hospital for specialized treatment. These costs need to be
considered when looking at total costs for critical CHD screening programs.
However, if doctors confirm that these babies do have a critical CHD, they
will also receive the care they need in a timely manner and possibly avoid
other costs like emergency care.

Overall, pulse oximetry screening is cost effective, which means that the
health benefits of screening outweigh the costs of screening.8 The CDC
estimates a cost of $12,000 for every year of life gained by critical CHD
screening.9

### Newborn Screening Contingency Plan, Version II, 2017

The intent of the Contingency Plan is to facilitate collaboration among
federal agencies and state, local, territorial, tribal, and regional efforts
to screen newborns for identified conditions during a public health emergency.
This effort is limited to those areas of the newborn screening system
(screening test, diagnosis and follow-up, treatment and management,
evaluation, and education), for which the state public health agency assumes
an oversight role.

Read the Newborn Screening Contingency Plan pdf icon[PDF - 25 MB]

###  References

                    1. Dawson AL, Cassell CH, Riehle-Colarusso T, Grosse SD, Tanner JP, Kirby RS, Watkins SM, Correia JA, Olney RS. Factors associated with late detection of critical congenital heart disease. Pediatrics. 2013; 132: e604-11.
                    2. Ailes EC, Gilboa SM, Honein MA, Oster ME. Estimated Number of Infants Detected and Missed by Critical Congenital Heart Defect Screening. Pediatrics. 2015;135(6):1000-1008.
                    3. Peterson C, Dawson A, Grosse SD, Riehle-Colarusso T, Olney RS, Tanner JP, Kirby RS, Correia JA, Watkins SM, Cassell CH. Hospitalizations, costs, and mortality among infants with critical congenital heart disease: How important is timely detection? Birth Def Res A Clin Mol Teratol. 2013;97(10):664-72.
                    4. Abouk R, Grosse SD, Ailes EC, Oster ME. Association of US State Implementation of Newborn Screening Policies for Critical Congenital Heart Disease With Early Infant Cardiac Deaths. JAMA. 2017; 318(21): 2111-2118.
                    5. Mahle WT, Newburger JW, Matherne GP, Smith FC, Hoke TR, Koppel R, Gidding SS, Beekman RH 3rd, Grosse SD. American Heart Association Congenital Heart Defects Committee of the Council on Cardiovascular Disease in the Young, Council on Cardiovascular Nursing, and Interdisciplinary Council on Quality of Care and Outcomes Research; American Academy of Pediatrics Section on Cardiology and Cardiac Surgery; Committee on Fetus and Newborn. Role of pulse oximetry in examining newborns for congenital heart disease: a scientific statement from the AHA and AAP. Pediatrics. 2009; 124:823-36.
                    6. De-Wahl Granelli A, Wennergren M, Sandberg K, Mellander M, Bejlum C, Inganas L, Eriksson M, Segerdahl N, Agren A, Ekman-Joelsson BM, Sunnegardh J, Verdicchio M, Sotman-Smith I. Impact of pulse-oximetry screening on the detection of duct-dependent congenital heart disease: a Swedish prospective screening study in 39,821 newborns. BMJ. 2009; 338:a3037.
                    7. Peterson C, Gross SD, Glidewell J, Garg LF, Van Naarden Braun K, Knapp MM, Beres LM, Hinton CF, Olney RS, Cassell CH. A public health economic assessment of hospitals' cost to screen newborns for critical congenital heart disease. Public Health Rep. 2014;129(1):86-93.
                    8. Peterson C, Grosse SD, Oster ME, Olney RS, Cassell CH. Cost-effectiveness of routine screening for critical congenital heart disease in US newborns. Pediatrics. 2013; 132:e595-603.
                    9. Grosse SD, Abouk R, Glidwell J, Oster ME. International Journal of Neonatal Screening. 2017; 3, 34.

Page last reviewed: November 12, 2019

Content source: ï»¿ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Congenital Heart Defects Home

                    * What are CHDsplus icon
                      * How the Heart Works
                    * Critical Congenital Heart Defectsplus icon
                      * Screening
                      * Current Research Activities
                      * Information for Healthcare Providers
                    * Specific Heart Defectsplus icon
                      * Atrial Septal Defect
                      * Atrioventricular Septal Defect
                      * Coarctation of the Aorta
                      * D-Transposition of the Great Arteries
                      * Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome
                      * Pulmonary Atresia
                      * Tetralogy of Fallot
                      * Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Return
                      * Tricuspid Atresia
                      * Truncus Arteriosus
                      * Ventricular Septal Defect
                    * Living with a CHD
                    * Data & Statistics
                    * Tracking & Research
                    * Articles & Key Findingsplus icon
                      * Living with a Heart Defect
                    * Free Materialsplus icon
                      * Tracking and Research Fact Sheet
                      * CHD Tracking and Research Fact Sheet
                      * 10 Years of Improving Understanding of CHDs
                    * Multimedia and Toolsplus icon
                      * A Heart-To-Heart Chat
                    * Real Stories
                    * Links to Other Resources

Information For…

                    * Media
                    * Policy Makers



**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

