https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/dsat/about-fsap.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/dsat/about-fsap.htm    
                Description: Center for Preparedness and Response    
                Keywords: preparedness, response, health, threats, toxins, bioterrorism, disasters, emergency, prepared    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Center for Preparedness and Response

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Division of Select Agents and Toxins: About the Federal Select Agent Program

Minus

Related Pages

### History of the Federal Select Agent Program

In response to the 2001 U.S. anthrax attacks and as part of the Public Health
Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002 (the
"Bioterrorism Act"), Congress sought to increase the security and oversight of
select agents and toxins by creating a regulatory organization that would have
the authority to create and enforce regulations that dictate who, how, and
where select agents and toxins could be possessed, used, and transferred.

The result was the Federal Select Agent Program (FSAP)External, which is
managed jointly by CDC and USDA's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
(APHIS)/Agriculture Select Agent Services (AgSAS). CDC provides oversight for
the select agents and toxins that cause diseases in people, and APHIS provides
oversight for select agents and toxins that cause diseases in animals and
plants. CDC and APHIS share the responsibility for agents that threaten both
humans and animals, such as anthrax. FSAP also works closely with the Federal
Bureau of Investigation/Criminal Justice Information Services Division to
conduct security background checks of employees who access select agents or
toxins. Learn more about the history of FSAPExternal.  

### Progress of the Federal Select Agent Program

Today, FSAP oversees nearly 300 organizations that are registered to possess,
use or transfer select agents and toxins. These organizations range from
university and government laboratories to private and commercial
organizations.

The research conducted on select agents and toxins provides important
scientific discoveries that have led to improved surveillance, prevention,
diagnostics and treatment options for diseases and toxins considered to be the
most threatening to people's health. While some of the diseases and toxins
considered to be select agents and toxins are not inherently dangerous in
their natural form, many of these organisms, if manipulated or released in
large quantities, can cause serious health threats to humans or agriculture.
By balancing the importance of the research being done and the risk of working
with select agents and toxins, FSAP helps make it possible to conduct this
vital research critical to national security in a safe and secure manner.
Learn more about FSAP progressExternal.

### CDC and the Federal Select Agent Program

Within CDC the Division of Select Agents and Toxins, housed within the Office
of Emergency Preparedness and Response, took on the responsibility of
facilitating CDC's role in FSAP. The division oversees both the CDC arm of
FSAP as well as CDC's Import Permit Program, which regulates the importation
of infectious biological agents, infectious substances, and vectors of human
disease into the United States.

CDC, through the division, has conducted more than 2,000 inspections of
organizations registered with the Federal Select Agent Program. This milestone
marks a continued commitment to our nation's defense against naturally
occurring disease and bioterrorism. Updates on program improvement efforts
related to CDC's role in the FSAP can be found here.

Federal Select Agent Program

![](/cpr/dsat/images/fsap_web_thumb.jpg)

**Visit the Federal Select Agent Program website** External

Related Information

What is a select agent?

Regulation of select agents and toxins

Enforcement of select agent and toxin regulations

CDC Regulations

Job Listings

Page last reviewed: June 30, 2016

Content source: Center for Preparedness and Response

home Center for Preparedness and Response

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What We Doplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ready for Emergencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Public Health Preparedness and Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emergency Operations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State and Local Readiness (PHEP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Laboratory Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Safeguarding Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Poliovirus Containment 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Global Preparedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Vulnerable Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Why it Matters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Who We Areplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Leadership
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Organization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Divisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Emergency Preparedness Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prepare Your Healthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Personal Health Preparednessplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Personal Needs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prescriptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Paperwork
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Power Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Practical Skills
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Plan Aheadplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stay Healthy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stay Informed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stay In Contact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Create Communityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Care For Each Other
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Get Involved
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Emergency Operationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDCâs EOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How It Works
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emergency Management Fellowship
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stories and Blogs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Situation Awareness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State and Local Readiness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * U.S. National Authority for Containment of Poliovirus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Select Agents and Toxinsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Federal Select Agent Programplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * What is a Select Agent?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Regulation of Select Agents and Toxins
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Enforcement of Regulations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Import Permit Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stories and Blogs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports and Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Program Reviews and Progress Updatesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC 90-Day Internal Review
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Progress Towards Change
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Science and Public Health Practice plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Current Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prior Research 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Research Funding Opportunity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Board of Scientific Counselorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Member Roster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Member Profiles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Meeting Schedule
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Meeting Minutes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policy & Partnershipsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Successful Partnerships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stay Connectedplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Become a Partner
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Partner Tools and Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * NGA Webinars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communication Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Blog
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Social Media Graphics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Campaignsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Preparedness Monthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preparedness Month 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preparedness Month 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preparedness Month 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preparedness Month 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Safe and Well Selfie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ready Wrigley!plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Books
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zombie Preparednessplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zombie Graphic Novel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prep Your Health Chat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Resources & Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Trainingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Whole Community Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Meta-Leadership Summit for Preparedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Preparedness and Emergency Response Learning Centers

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-twitter-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-
fb-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-phm-24px.jpg)
![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-in-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-
pin-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-govd-24px.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM

