https://www.cdc.gov/std/syphilis/default.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/std/syphilis/default.htm    
                Description: Syphilis - STD Information from CDC.  Facts, Statistics, Treatment, Syphilis Elimination, and Other Resources.    
                Keywords: Syphilis,  Syphilis Elimination,  siphilis,  sifilis,  sifillis,  Treponema pallidum,  T. pallidum,  great imitator,  Facts,  Treatment,  Statistics,  primary,  secondary,  late,  HIV,  MSM,  STD,  CDC, Syphilis (Treponema pallidum Infection)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

# Syphilis

Minus

Related Pages

![Syphilis can have very serious consequences when left
untreated.](/std/syphilis/images/syph-4.jpg)

Syphilis can have very serious complications when left untreated.

Fact Sheet

![hand and tablet computer](/std/syphilis/images/factsheet.jpg)

You should get tested regularly if you are pregnant, are a man who has sex
with men, have HIV infection, and/or have partner(s) who have tested positive
for syphilis.

MSM Fact Sheet

![two men holding hands](/std/syphilis/images/MSMfactsheet.jpg)

The majority of reported male primary and secondary (P&S) syphilis cases where
sex of sex partner is known are among men who have sex with men (MSM).

Treatment

![pregnant woman and her husband talking to
doctor](/std/syphilis/images/treatment.jpg)

Syphilis is easy to cure in its early stages. Pregnant women should be tested
regularly for syphilis because infection with syphilis can cause serious
problems in a baby.

Highlights

#### Syphilis Increase in USA

Syphilis Risk Supplement: Report with data on all reported risk behaviors and
characteristics for primary and secondary (P&S) syphilis cases for 2014-2018
(January 22, 2020)

A Devastating Surge in Congenital Syphilis: How Can We Stop It?external icon
In this Medscape expert commentary, CDC's Dr. Laura H. Bachmann, MD, MPH
speaks to rising congenital syphilis rates and what healthcare providers can
do to help (January 23, 2019)

The State of STDs in the United States: This *customizable* infographic
highlights statistics for chlamydia, gonorrhea, and syphilis, as well as the
populations most affected by these STDs, consequences when left untreated, and
ways to prevent them. (October 18, 2019)

Let's Work Together to Stem the Tide of Rising Syphilis in the United
States:pdf icon CDC issues a call to action for communities impacted by the
STD and other groups who have the power to reduce the burden of infection
through research, treatment, and outreach. The document also lists how CDC
will contribute to reducing syphilis burden. (April 25, 2017)

Syphilis Success Stories

![Success Story](/std/products/success/images/312079-A_FS_AlaskaSyphilis-
STORY-508-1.png)

Curbing a Syphilis Outbreak in Alaska

The Alaska Division of Public Health, CDC, and community members worked
together to get to the bottom of a syphilis outbreak in Anchorage.

![Success Story](/std/products/success/images/congSyph2019.png)

Preventing Congenital Syphilis in the U.S.

Nine CDC-funded jurisdictions made great strides in establishing and
activating systems to help identify and prevent congenital syphilis in their
communities.

![Success Story](/std/products/success/images/Louisiana-
Syphilis_SuccessStories_April2019.png)

Combating Congenital Syphilis in Louisiana

The Louisiana Department of Health's STD/HIV Program is pulling out all of the
stops to tackle increases in syphilis and its impact on women and babies in
the state.

badge icon

See More Success Stories

Page last reviewed: March 11, 2020

Content source: Division of STD Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS,
Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention

home Syphilis

                    * Facts & Brochures expand
                      * Basic Fact Sheet
                      * Detailed Fact Sheet
                      * Congenital Syphilis Fact Sheet
                      * Syphilis & MSM Fact Sheet
                      * Syphilis Images
                    * Statistics
                    * Laboratory Information
                    * Treatment and Care expand
                      * Clinical Advisory: Ocular Syphilis in the United States
                    * What You Can Do expand
                      * What Healthcare Providers Can Do
                      * What Gay and Bisexual Men Can Do
                      * What Pregnant Women Can Do
                    * Other Resources
                    * Archive

STDs Home Page

                    * Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)
                    * Chlamydia
                    * Gonorrhea
                    * Genital Herpes
                    * Hepatitis
                    * HIV/AIDS & STDs
                    * Human Papillomavirus (HPV)
                    * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
                    * STDs & Infertility
                    * STDs & Pregnancy
                    * Syphilis
                    * Trichomoniasis
                    * Other STDs

#### See Also

                    * Pregnancy
                    * HIV / AIDS

**Find an STD testing site near you.**

ZIP Code:  

Follow STD

                    * Social_round_twitter twitter STD on Twitter
                    * Social_round_facebook facebook STD on Facebook

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

