http://blogs.cdc.gov/publichealthmatters/Link: http://blogs.cdc.gov/publichealthmatters/    
                Description: CDC - Blogs - Public Health Matters Blog - Sharing our stories on preparing for and responding to public health events    
                Keywords: public health, CDC, zombie, Khan, emergency, disease    
                            

Skip directly to search Skip directly to A to Z list Skip directly to
navigation Skip directly to page options Skip directly to site content

![Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People](/TemplatePackage/3.0/images/masthead_subpage.svg)
![Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People](/TemplatePackage/3.0/images/masthead_1-col.svg)

Start of Search Controls

Search Form Controls

TOPIC ONLY

Search The CDC

cancel submit

CDC A-Z Index

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MENU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC A-Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * SEARCH

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * #

Start of Search Controls

Search Form Controls

TOPIC ONLY

Search The CDC

cancel submit

## Public Health Matters Blog

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

### Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Disclaimers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Center for Preparedness and Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Our Newsletter

### Search This Blog

Search for:

####   Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Enter Email Address What's this?Submit What's this? Submit Button

# Public Health Matters Blog Posts

Recommend on Facebook Tweet
![Share](/TemplatePackage/3.0/images/social/addthis-32.png)ShareCompartir

### We the People: How to Create Community in an Emergency

![A family of two adults and two kids sitting in their
backyard.](https://blogs.cdc.gov/publichealthmatters/files/2020/03/PHM_Create-
community_header_FINAL-1-825x510.jpg)

Creating community is important to building resilience to a public health
emergency, but it can be incredibly difficult to do in a pandemic. On its
surface, the idea of coming together to prepare and build resilience
contradicts CDCâs guidance to put distance between yourself and other people
(i.e., physical distancing). However, there are less traditional Read More >

Posted on March 30, 2020 by Blog AdministratorLeave a comment

Categories Disease Outbreak, General, mental health, personal health,
prevention, public health, response

Tags Care for Each Other, coronavirus disease 2019, COVID-19, Create
Community, physical distancing, Prepare Your Health, Ready Wrigley

* * *

### Be Prepared by Staying Informed About COVID-19

![A woman reading the
newspaper.](https://blogs.cdc.gov/publichealthmatters/files/2020/03/316203-C_Blog-
Header-3-COVID-19_Public-Health-Matters-825x510.jpg)

The U.S. Government, including the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
(CDC), is coordinating an emergency response to the Coronavirus Disease 2019
(COVID-19) outbreak, and itâs rapidly evolving situation. As new information
and updated guidance becomes available, CDC is using traditional and digital
methods, including social media, to inform the whole community, including
schools, businesses, Read More >

Posted on March 30, 2020 by Blog AdministratorLeave a comment

Categories Disease Outbreak, General, mental health, personal health, public
health, response

Tags coronavirus disease 2019, COVID-19, misinformation, Prepare Your Health,
rumor, stay informed

* * *

### Physical Distancing & the Joy of Joining In

![Older adult male painting a
canvas.](https://blogs.cdc.gov/publichealthmatters/files/2020/03/PHM_Physical-
distancing_header_CLEAR-825x510.jpg)

  Physical distancing is the act of avoiding crowded places and putting space
between yourself and others. In practical terms, it means staying at home
(mostly) and away from public places, such as restaurants, where people get
together. Itâs a prescription that goes double for people who are at higher
risk of getting very sick Read More >

Posted on March 26, 2020 by Blog AdministratorLeave a comment

Categories Disease Outbreak, General, mental health, personal health,
preparedness, prevention, public health, response

Tags community nonpharmaceutical interventions, physical distancing, Prepare
Your Health

* * *

### Prep Your Health: Chronic Kidney Disease Care in an Emergency

![Artistic illustration of kidneys inside the human
body](https://blogs.cdc.gov/publichealthmatters/files/2020/03/PHM_Natl-Kidney-
Mnth_header-825x495.jpg)

There are different forms of chronic kidney disease and many receive different
types of treatment for it. In observance of March being National Kidney Month,
Public Health Matters looks at how people who need dialysis can prepare for
disasters and emergencies. For being so small (each is about the size of a
computer mouse), the Read More >

Posted on March 23, 2020 by Blog AdministratorLeave a comment

Categories General, natural disasters, personal health, preparedness, public
health, response

Tags chronic kidney disease, dialysis, National Kidney Month, personal health
preparedness, Prep Your Health, prescription medications

* * *

### NCEZID Labs, Programs Mark 2019 Milestones

![Color illustration of a variety of microscopic germs and
viruses](https://blogs.cdc.gov/publichealthmatters/files/2020/03/PHM_NCEZID-
Accomplishments-2019_header-825x500.jpg)

The National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID)
faced challenges in 2019, but the year also marked a number of milestones for
the center. NCEZIDâs annual Accomplishments report recaps those achievements
and lays out some of the future challenges. Milestones in Laboratory Science
CDCâs high-containment laboratories (HCL), which study some of the worldâs
Read More >

Posted on March 16, 2020 by Rima F. Khabbaz, MD; Director, National Center for
Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious DiseasesLeave a comment

Categories Disease Investigation, Disease Outbreak, Environmental Health,
Foodborne, General, personal health, response, Vectorborne, Waterborne

Tags drug-resistant infections, ebola, foodborne illness, high-containment
laboratories, Laboratory Response Network, National Center for Emerging and
Zoonotic Infectious Diseases, NCEZID, PulseNet, quarantine, rabies,
salmonella, vaping, waterborne illness

* * *

### Prep Your Health by Reviewing Important Paperwork

![Young woman helping an elderly woman complete a
form](https://blogs.cdc.gov/publichealthmatters/files/2020/03/Young-woman-
helping-an-elderly-woman-with-pen-and-paper_header-825x510.jpg)

The importance of proofreading everything you write before you turn it in is a
lesson many people learn in elementary school, and- throughout much of our
early lives-applies almost exclusively to things like book reports and term
papers. The need to check personal paperwork for errors and omissions becomes
even more important in adulthood when Read More >

Posted on March 6, 2020 by Blog AdministratorLeave a comment

Categories General, natural disasters, personal health, preparedness, response

Tags #prepyourhealth, Asthma Action Plan, back to school, Cancer Survivorship
Care Plan, Emergency Action Plan, emergency backpack card, medical records,
National Proofreading Day, paperwork, prescription medications, Ready Wrigley

* * *

Previous  Page 0  Page 0  Page 0  (https://blogs.cdc.gov/publichealthmatters/)

Page 1 of 67

Next  Page 2  Page 2  Page 2
(https://blogs.cdc.gov/publichealthmatters/page/2/)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 1(https://blogs.cdc.gov/publichealthmatters/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2(https://blogs.cdc.gov/publichealthmatters/page/2/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 3(https://blogs.cdc.gov/publichealthmatters/page/3/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 4(https://blogs.cdc.gov/publichealthmatters/page/4/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 5(https://blogs.cdc.gov/publichealthmatters/page/5/)

#### Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Enter Email Address What's this?Submit What's this? Submit Button

### Search This Blog

Search for:

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ePub file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RIS file

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Content source: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * YouTube

![Department of Health and Human
Services](/TemplatePackage/3.0/images/hhs.png)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ###### About CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Employment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Newsroom
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Training/Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC's Organization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mission and Vision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Using this Site
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ###### Legal

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Link to Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Accessibility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * No FEAR Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Inspector General
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * USA.gov
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * ###### Contact CDC

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

1600 Clifton Road Atlanta, GA 30329-4027 USA

800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636)

Contact CDC-INFO

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM

