

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

_Salmonella_

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

# Multistate Outbreak of Multidrug-Resistant _Salmonella_ I 4,[5],12:i:- and
_Salmonella_ Infantis Infections Linked to Pork (Final Update)

Minus

Related Pages

Posted December 2, 2015 1:30 PM ET

This outbreak appears to be over. However, _Salmonella_ is an important cause
of human illness in the United States. For more information about Salmonella
and steps that people can take to reduce their risk of infection, visit CDC's
_Salmonella_ webpage.

Highlights

                    * **Read the Recall & Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers »**
                    * This outbreak appears to be over. However, _Salmonella_ is an important cause of human illness in the United States. For more information about _Salmonella_ and steps that people can take to reduce their risk of infection, visit CDC's _Salmonella_ webpage.
                    * Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback findings identified pork produced by Kapowsin Meats as the likely source of this outbreak of _Salmonella_ I 4,[5],12:i:- and _Salmonella_ Infantis infections.
                    * 192 people infected with the outbreak strains of _Salmonella_ I 4,[5],12:i:- (188) and _Salmonella_ Infantis (4) were reported from five states. 
                      * Most ill people were reported from Washington.
                      * 30 ill people were hospitalized, and no deaths were reported.
                    * CDC's National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory conducted antibiotic-resistance testing on clinical isolates collected from 10 ill people infected with one of the outbreak strains of _Salmonella_ I 4,[5],12:i:-. 
                      * All 10 isolates (100%) were multidrug resistant. This included resistance to ampicillin, streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, and tetracycline.
                      * Antibiotic resistance may be associated with increased risk of hospitalization, development of a bloodstream infection, or treatment failure in patients.
                    * On August 27, 2015, Kapowsin Meats issued an expanded recallExternal of approximately 523,380 pounds of pork products that might be contaminated with _Salmonella_ I 4,[5],12:i:-.
                    * Consumers should check their homes and freezers for the recalled pork products and should not cook or eat them. Retailers should not sell these products and restaurants should not serve them.

Outbreak Summary

#### Introduction

The Washington State Department of HealthExternal (DOH), Public Health--
Seattle  & King CountyExternal (PHSKC), several states, CDC, and the U.S.
Department of Agriculture's Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS)
investigated an outbreak of _Salmonella_ I 4,[5],12:i:- and _Salmonella_
Infantis infections linked to pork.

Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses
that may be part of this outbreak. CDC coordinates PulseNet, the national
subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories.
DNA "fingerprinting" is performed on  _Salmonella_ bacteria isolated from ill
people using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and
whole genome sequencing (WGS). WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than
PFGE. PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to
identify possible outbreaks of enteric illness. Six DNA fingerprints (outbreak
strains) were included in this outbreak investigation. The six strains are
rare in Washington but more common in other U.S. states. WGS was performed on
clinical isolates from ill people in other states who were suspected to be
part of the outbreak. Some of these isolates were found to be closely
genetically related to clinical isolates from Washington. This close
association provided additional evidence that illnesses that occurred in other
states were related to the illnesses in Washington.

A total of 192 ill people infected with the outbreak strains of _Salmonella_ I
4,[5],12:i:- (188) and _Salmonella_ Infantis (4) were reported from five
states. The number of ill people reported from each state was as follows:
Alaska (1), California (2), Idaho (2), Oregon (3), and Washington (184). Most
of the ill people infected in states other than Washington traveled to
Washington in the week before their illness started.

Among people for whom information was available, illnesses started on dates
ranging from April 25, 2015, to September 25, 2015. Ill people ranged in age
from less than 1 year to 90, with a median age of 35. Fifty-one percent of ill
people were female. Among 180 ill people with available information, 30 (17%)
were hospitalized, and no deaths were reported.

#### Investigation of the Outbreak

Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback findings identified pork produced by
Kapowsin Meats as the likely source of this outbreak of _Salmonella_ I
4,[5],12:i:- and _Salmonella_ Infantis infections.

In interviews, ill people answered questions about foods eaten and other
exposures in the week before they became ill. Of 123 people for whom
information was available, 94 (76%) reported eating pork in the week before
becoming ill. This proportion was significantly higher than results from a
survey Cdc-pdf[PDF - 29 pages] of healthy people in which 43% reported eating
pork in the week before they were interviewed.

In addition, numerous ill people were identified as part of illness clusters
following events such as pig roasts. An illness cluster is defined as two or
more people who do not live in the same household who report eating at the
same restaurant location, attending a common event, or shopping at the same
location of a grocery store in the week before becoming ill. Investigating
illness clusters can provide critical clues about the source of an outbreak.
If several unrelated ill persons ate or shopped at the same location of a
restaurant or store within several days of each other, it suggests that the
contaminated food item was served or sold there.

Laboratory testing confirmed the outbreak strains in environmental samples
collected by Washington State DOH from the Kapowsin Meats facility. On August
13, 2015, Kapowsin Meats voluntarily recalledExternal approximately 116,262
pounds of whole pigs that might be contaminated with _Salmonella_ I
4,[5],12:i:-. The product was shipped to individuals, retail locations,
institutions, and distributors in Alaska, Oregon, and Washington.

While Kapowsin Meats took steps to address sanitary conditions at their
facility after the original recallExternal on August 13, 2015, USDA-
FSISExternal conducted intensified sampling. The intensified sampling
identified _Salmonella_ I 4,[5],12:i:- and _Salmonella_ Infantis on whole pigs
for barbeque, on associated pork products, and throughout the facility.
Kapowsin Meats voluntarily suspended operations and on August 27, 2015,
expanded its recallExternal to include approximately 523,380 pounds of pork
products that might be contaminated with _Salmonella_ I 4,[5],12:i:-. Recalled
pork products included whole pigs for barbeque, various pork offal products,
pork blood, and pork trim. The products were shipped to individuals, retail
locations, institutions, and distributors in Alaska, Oregon, and Washington. A
review of the PulseNet database identified 4 people infected with the same DNA
fingerprint of _Salmonella_ Infantis, and these ill people were included in
the outbreak case count. Interviews were conducted with 3 of the 4 ill people;
all 3 people reported eating pork in the week before their illness started.

The National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring SystemExternal (NARMS) is a
U.S. public health surveillance system that tracks antibiotic resistance in
foodborne and other enteric bacteria found in people, raw meat and poultry,
and food-producing animals. NARMS is a partnership among the CDC, the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration (FDA), USDA, and state and local health
departments.

The NARMS human surveillance program at CDC monitors antibiotic resistance in
_Salmonella_ and other bacteria isolated from clinical specimens submitted to
NARMS by public health laboratories. CDC's NARMS laboratory conducted
antibiotic resistance testing on clinical isolates collected from 10 ill
people infected with one of the outbreak strains of _Salmonella_ I
4,[5],12:i:-. Of the 10 isolates tested, all (100%) were multidrug resistant.
This included resistance to ampicillin, streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, and
tetracycline. Antibiotic resistance may be associated with increased risk of
hospitalization, development of a bloodstream infection, or treatment failure
in patients.

December 2, 2015

##### Final Case Count Update

Since the last update on August 28, 2015, 40 more ill people were reported,
including 32 people from Washington and 8 people from Alaska (1), California
(2), Idaho (2), and Oregon (3).

A total of 192 ill people infected with the outbreak strains of _Salmonella_ I
4,[5],12:i:- (188) and _Salmonella_ Infantis (4) were reported from five
states. The number of ill people reported from each state was as follows:
Alaska (1), California (2), Idaho (2), Oregon (3), and Washington (184).

Among people for whom information was available, illnesses started on dates
ranging from April 25, 2015, to September 25, 2015. Ill people ranged in age
from less than 1 year to 90, with a median age of 35. Fifty-one percent of ill
people were female. Among 180 ill people with available information, 30 (17%)
were hospitalized, and no deaths were reported.

August 28, 2015

##### Case Count Update

As of August 27, 2015, 152 ill people infected with the outbreak strains of
_Salmonella_ I 4,[5],12:i:- have been reported from Washington. Since the last
update on August 14, 18 more ill people have been reported.

Among people for whom information is available, illnesses started on dates
ranging from April 25, 2015 to August 12, 2015. Ill people range in age from 1
to 90 years, with a median age of 35. Forty-seven percent of ill people are
female. Among 144 ill people with available information, 24 (17%) report being
hospitalized. No deaths have been reported.

Illnesses that occurred after August 13, 2015 might not be reported yet due to
the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is
reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for
Reporting Cases of _Salmonella_ Infection for more details.

#### Investigation Update

Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback findings identified pork produced by
Kapowsin Meats as a likely source of this outbreak of _Salmonella_ I
4,[5],12:i:- infections. This investigation is ongoing.

In ongoing interviews, ill people answered questions about foods eaten and
other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of 89 people for whom
information is available, 65 (73%) reported eating pork in the week before
becoming ill. This proportion was significantly higher than results from a
surveyCdc-pdf of healthy people in which 43% reported eating pork in the week
before they were interviewed.

USDA-FSISExternal has been conducting intensified sampling at Kapowsin Meats
while this establishment took steps to address sanitary conditions at their
facility after the original recallExternal on August 13, 2015. Sampling
revealed positive results for _Salmonella_ I 4,[5],12:i:- on whole pigs for
barbeque, associated pork products, and throughout the establishment. Kapowsin
Meats has voluntarily suspended operations. As a result of the ongoing
investigation, on August 27, 2015, Kapowsin Meats issued an expanded
recallExternal of approximately 523,380 pounds of pork products that may be
contaminated with _Salmonella_ I 4,[5],12:i:-. Recalled pork products include
whole pigs for barbeque and fabricated pork products including various pork
offal products, pork blood, and pork trim. The products subject to recall bear
the establishment number "Est. 1628" inside the USDA mark of inspection and
were produced on several dates between April 18, 2015 and August 26, 2015. The
products were shipped to various individuals, retail locations, institutions,
and distributors in Alaska, Oregon, and Washington.

CDC's NARMS laboratory conducted antibiotic resistance testing on clinical
isolates collected from 10 ill people infected with one of the outbreak
strains. Of the 10 isolates tested, all (100%) were multidrug resistant. This
included resistance to ampicillin, streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, and
tetracycline. Antibiotic resistance may be associated with increased risk of
hospitalization, development of a bloodstream infection, or treatment failure
in patients. CDC's NARMS laboratory continues to test additional isolates.
Results will be reported when they become available.

CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory
surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to
interview them. Updates will be provided when more information is available.

Initial Announcement

#### August 14, 2015

The Washington State Department of HealthExternal (DOH) and Public Health--
Seattle & King CountyExternal (SKC), with CDC and the U.S. Department of
Agriculture's Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS), are
investigating an outbreak of _Salmonella_ I 4,[5],12:i:- infections linked to
pork.

Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify
illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet, the national subtyping
network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories, is
coordinated by CDC. DNA "fingerprinting" is performed on _Salmonella_ bacteria
isolated from ill people by using a technique called pulsed-field gel
electrophoresis, or PFGE. PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA
"fingerprints" to identify possible outbreaks. Five DNA "fingerprints"
(outbreak strains) are included in this outbreak investigation. The five
strains are rare in Washington.

A total of 134 ill people infected with the outbreak strains of _Salmonella_ I
4,[5],12:i:- have been reported from Washington.

Among people for whom information is available, illnesses started on dates
ranging from April 25, 2015 to August 1, 2015. Ill people range in age from 1
year to 90, with a median age of 35. Forty-six percent of ill people are
female. Among 111 ill people with available information, 16 (14%) report being
hospitalized. No deaths have been reported.

This outbreak can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of people who
became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve.
Illnesses that occurred after July 27, 2015 might not be reported yet due to
the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is
reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for
Reporting Cases of _Salmonella_ Infection for more details.

#### Investigation of the Outbreak

CDC is assisting DOH and SKC with the epidemiologic investigation. A CDC Epi-
Aid team arrived in Seattle, Washington on August 3, 2015.

Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback findings identified pork produced by
Kapowsin Meats as a likely source of this outbreak of _Salmonella_ I
4,[5],12:i:- infections. This investigation is ongoing.

In ongoing interviews, ill people answered questions about foods eaten and
other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of 55 people for whom
information is available, 37 (67%) reported eating pork in the week before
becoming ill. This proportion was significantly higher than results from a
survey Cdc-pdf[PDF - 29 pages]  of healthy people in which 43% reported eating
pork in the week before they were interviewed. In addition, numerous ill
people were identified as part of illness clusters following events such as
whole hog roasts. An illness cluster is defined as two or more people who do
not live in the same household who report eating at the same restaurant
location, attending a common event, or shopping at the same location of a
grocery store in the week before becoming ill. Investigating illness clusters
can provide critical clues about the source of an outbreak. If several
unrelated ill persons ate or shopped at the same location of a restaurant or
store within several days of each other, it suggests that the contaminated
food item was served or sold there.

On July 31, 2015, USDA-FSIS issued a public health alertExternal due to
concerns about illnesses caused by _Salmonella_ I 4,[5],12:i:- that may be
associated with pork products, specifically whole pigs used for roasts. USDA-
FSIS advises all consumers to safely prepare raw meat products and only
consume pork products that have been cooked to an internal temperature of
145°F with 3 minutes of rest time.

Laboratory testing of environmental samples collected from Kapowsin Meats by
DOH confirmed the outbreak strain was present in the facility. The business,
which is regulated by USDA-FSIS, has cooperated with the investigation.

As a result of this investigation, on August 13, 2015, Kapowsin Meats
voluntarily recalledExternal approximately 116,262 pounds of whole pigs that
may be contaminated with _Salmonella_ I 4,[5],12:i:-. The product subject to
recall bears the establishment number "est. 1628" inside the USDA mark of
inspection and was produced on various dates between April 18, 2015 and July
27, 2015. The product was shipped to various individuals, retail locations,
institutions, and distributors in Alaska and Washington.

The National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring SystemExternal (NARMS) is a
U.S. public health surveillance system that tracks antibiotic resistance in
foodborne and other enteric bacteria found in people, raw meat and poultry,
and food-producing animals. NARMS is a partnership among the CDC, the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration (FDA), USDA, and state and local health
departments.

The NARMS human surveillance program at CDC monitors antibiotic resistance in
_Salmonella_ and other bacteria isolated from clinical specimens submitted to
NARMS by public health laboratories. CDC's NARMS laboratory conducted
antibiotic resistance testing on clinical isolates collected from three ill
people infected with one of the outbreak strains. Of the three isolates
tested, all (100%) were multidrug resistant. This included resistance to
ampicillin, streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, and tetracycline. Antibiotic
resistance may be associated with increased risk of hospitalization,
development of a bloodstream infection, or treatment failure in patients.
CDC's NARMS laboratory continues to conduct antibiotic resistance testing on
additional clinical isolates collected from ill persons infected with the
outbreak strains. Results will be reported when they become available.

CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory
surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to
interview them. Updates will be provided when more information is available.

At A Glance

                    * Case Count: 192
                    * States: 5
                    * Deaths: 0
                    * Hospitalizations: 30
                    * Recall: Yes

CLICK TO VIEW EPI CURVE GRAPHS

![As of November 23, 2015 ~ People infected with the outbreak strains of
Salmonella I4,\[5\],12:i:-, by date of illness
onset](/salmonella/pork-08-15/images/small-epi-11-23-2015.jpg)

CLICK TO VIEW CASE COUNT MAPS

![Map of Salmonella I 4,\[5\],12:i:- or Salmonella Infantis
Outbreak](/salmonella/pork-08-15/images/small-map-11-23-2015.jpg)

More Information

                    * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                    * Signs & Symptoms
                    * Key Resources

Page last reviewed: December 2, 2015

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Foodborne,
Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases (DFWED)

home _Salmonella_ Homepage

                    * Questions & Answersplus icon
                      * Additional Information
                    * Prevention
                    * Symptoms
                    * Diagnosis & Treatmentplus icon
                      * Diagnostic and Public Health Testing
                    * Current Outbreaksplus icon
                      * Reporting Timeline
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Pet Turtlesplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a tortugas mascota pequeÃ±as
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Cut Fruitplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Ground Beefplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a la carne de res molida
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Turtlesplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a turtugas mascota
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pig Ear Dog Treatsplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Papayasplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a papayas frescas enteras importadas de MÃ©xico
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Karawan brand Tahiniplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a tahini de la marca Karawan
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Backyard Poultryplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brotes de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculados a aves de corral domÃ©sticas
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Raw Tunaplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ Newport vinculado a atÃºn crudo congelado
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melonplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ Carrau vinculado a melÃ³n y sandÃ­a precortados
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                        * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Butterball Brand Ground Turkeyplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado al pavo molido de marca Butterball
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                        * Actualizaciones de la investigaciÃ³n del brote, por fecha
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Hedgehogsplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a los erizos como mascota
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                        * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                    * Previous Outbreaksplus icon
                      * 2018 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Multidrug-Resistant _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Raw Turkey Productsplus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por Salmonella multirresistente vinculado a productos de pavo crudo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Tahini from Achdut Ltd., 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a tahini elaborado por Achdut Ltd.
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Raw Chicken Products, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Advice to Clinicians
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por Salmonella multirresistente vinculado a productos de pollo crudo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Recomendaciones para los mÃ©dicos
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Ground Beef, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a carne molida de res
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Agbeni Infections, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Gravel Ridge Farms Shell Eggs, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado al pollo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chicken, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado al pollo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Hy-Vee Spring Pasta Salad, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por Salmonella vinculado a la ensalada de pasta âHy-Vee Spring Pasta Saladâ
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Kelloggâs Honey Smacks Cereal, 2018plus icon
                          * Salmonella Infections Linked to Kelloggâs Honey Smacks Cereal en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melon, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melon en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Contact with Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Contact with Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Case Count Maps
                        * _Salmonella_ Braenderup Infections Linked to Shell Eggs, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Braenderup Infections Linked to Shell Eggs en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recalls and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Dried Coconut, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Dried Coconut en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall and Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Guinea Pigs, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Guinea Pigs en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Case Count Maps en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Signs & Symptoms en EspaÃ±ol
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chicken Salad, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chicken Salad en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Kratom, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Kratom en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recalls and Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Montevideo Infections Linked to Raw Sprouts, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Raw Sprouts en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Shredded Coconut, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Shredded Coconut en EspaÃ±ol
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Shredded Coconut á» Viá»t Nam [PDF â 3 pages]
                          * Recall and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2017 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Urbana Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Urbana Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Newport & Infantis Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Newport & Infantis Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Anatum Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Anatum Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Turtles, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles, 2017 en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Case Count Maps
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Laboratory Exposure, 2017plus icon
                          * Advice to Students & Employees in Microbiology Laboratories
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry in Backyard Flocksplus icon
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Live Poultry FAQ
                      * 2016 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Heidelberg Infections Linked to Contact with Dairy Calves, 2016plus icon
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                        * _Salmonella_ Oranienburg Infections Linked to Shell Eggs, 2016plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Reading and _Salmonella_ Abony Infections linked to Alfalfa Sprouts, 2016plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps 
                          * Epi Curves 
                          * Signs & Symptoms 
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2016plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Live Poultry FAQs
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Montevideo and _Salmonella_ Senftenberg Infections Linked to Wonderful Pistachios, 2016plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts from One Contaminated Seed Lot, 2016plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Virchow Infections Linked to Raw Meal Organic Shake and Meal Products, 2016plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2015 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) Infections Linked to Sprouted Nut Butter Spreads, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles, 2015plus icon
                          * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Advice to Pet Owners en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Signs & Symptoms 
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Poona Infections Linked to Imported Cucumbers, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Multidrug-Resistant _Salmonella_ I 4,[5],12:i:- and _Salmonella_ Infantis Infections Linked to Pork, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Enteritidis Infections Linked to Raw, Frozen, Stuffed Chicken Entrees Produced by Aspen Foods, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Drug-Resistant _Salmonella_ Enteritidis Infections Linked to Raw, Frozen, Stuffed Chicken Entrees Produced by Barber Foods, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2015plus icon
                          * Advice to Backyard Flock Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Raw Tuna, 2015plus icon
                          * Advice to Retailers & Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Crested Geckos, 2015plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2014 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Bean Sprouts, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                          * Final Case Count Maps
                          * Final Epi Curve
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Braenderup Infections Linked to Nut Butter, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human Typhimurium Infections Linked to Laboratory Exposure, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Students & Employees in Labs
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chia Powder, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Frozen Feeder Rodents, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Bearded Dragons, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Heidelberg Infections Linked to Tyson Brand Mechanically Separated Chicken, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Institutions
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Stanley Infections Linked to Raw Cashew Cheese, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2013 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Heidelberg Infections Linked to Foster Farms Brand Chicken, 2013plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                          * Timeline of Events
                        * _Salmonella_ Mbandaka Infections Linked to Tahini Sesame Paste, 2013plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Saintpaul Infections Linked to Imported Cucumbers, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Heidelberg Infections Linked to Chicken, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Ground Beef, 2013plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2012 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Bredeney Infections Linked to Peanut Butter, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Hedgehogs, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Braenderup Infections Associated with Mangoes, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Typhimurium and Newport Infections Linked to Cantaloupe, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Ground Beef, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Hadar Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Montevideo Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infantis Infections Linked to Dry Dog Food, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Information for Pet Owners
                          * Information for Veterinarians
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Bareilly and Nchanga Infections Associated with a Raw Scraped Ground Tuna Product, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                          * Timeline of Events
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Outbreaks Diagram
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resource
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Restaurant Chain A, 2012
                      * 2010 through 2011 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to Ground Beef
                        * Heidelberg Infections Linked to Kosher Broiled Chicken Livers
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Turkish Pine Nuts
                        * Heidelberg Infections Linked to Ground Turkey
                        * Agona Infections Linked to Whole, Fresh Imported Papayas
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts and Spicy Sprouts
                        * Altona and Johannesburg Infections Linked to Chicks and Ducklings
                        * Typhimurium Infections Associated with Lab Exposure
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to African Dwarf Frogs
                        * Hadar Infections Associated with Turkey Burgers
                        * Panama Infections Linked to Cantaloupe
                        * I 4,[5],12:i:- Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts
                        * Enteritidis Infections Associated with Shell Eggs
                        * Chester Infections Associated with Cheesy Chicken & Rice Frozen EntrÃ©e
                        * Typhi (Typhoid Fever) Associated with Frozen Mamey Fruit Pulp
                        * Hartford and Baildon Infections Associated with Restaurant Chain A
                        * I 4,[5],12:i:- Linked to Frozen Rodents
                        * Newport Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts
                        * Montevideo Infections Linked to Red and Black Pepper/Italian-Style Meats
                      * 2006 through 2009 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Saintpaul Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pistachio Nuts
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to Peanut Butter
                        * Saintpaul Infections Linked to Raw Produce
                        * Agona Infections Linked to Rice & Wheat Puff Cereal
                        * Litchfield Infections Linked to Cantaloupe
                        * I 4,[5],12:i:- Infections Linked to Pot Pies
                        * Human Schwarzengrund Infections Linked to Dry Pet Food
                        * Wandsworth Infections Linked to Veggie Booty
                        * Tennessee Infections Linked to Peanut Butter
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to Tomatoes
                    * For Health Professionals
                    * Surveillanceplus icon
                      * _Salmonella_ Atlasplus icon
                        * 32 Individual Serotypes Reports
                        * Importance of Serotyping
                        * Snapshots of Serotypes
                    * Communication Materials
                    * Reports & Publicationsplus icon
                      * MMWR Articles
                      * References

Related Links

                    * Multistate Foodborne Outbreaks
                    * Zoonotic Diseases (Diseases from Animals)
                    * Foodborne Illness A-Z
                    * Estimates of Foodborne Illness
                    * Report a Foodborne Illness
                    * Foodsafety.govExternal file_external 
                    * U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External file_external 
                    * USDA Food Safety and Inspection ServiceExternal file_external 

Follow Salmonella

![Sign up for RSS feed.](/salmonella/images/outbreaks/rss-icon.png)

Sign up for RSS Feed

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

