https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/research/prior.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/research/prior.htm    
                Description: Centers for Preparedness and Response    
                Keywords: preparedness, response, health, threats, toxins, bioterrorism, disasters, emergency, prepared    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Center for Preparedness and Response

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Prior Research Programs

Minus

Related Pages

![CDP ICE BALTIMORE
](/cpr/research/00_images/CDP_ICE_BALTIMORE_IMT_MAY_2_2014_117_medium.jpg)

Workforce Improvement Project: Translation, Dissemination and Implementation
of Public Health Preparedness and Response Research and Training Program

This two-year cooperative agreement (2015-2017) with the Association of
Schools & Programs of Public Health (ASPPH) supported the translation,
application, and evaluation of promising research products and trainings
developed by the Preparedness and Emergency Response Research Centers (PERRCs)
and the Preparedness and Emergency Response Learning Centers (PERLCs), all
funded by the CDC. ASPPH is coordinated nine subproject awards to nine former
PERRC and PERLC investigators, to synthesize PERRC and PERLC program outcomes
and promote uptake of PERRC and PERLC products into broader public health
practice and policy.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * PERRC Toolkit InventoryExternal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * PERLC Training CatalogExternal

Hurricane Sandy Recovery Research Program

Funded under the Hurricane Sandy Recovery and Rebuilding Supplemental
Appropriations Act of 2013, this two-year research program represented the
first time HHS has been able to fund research needed by local communities to
determine the best ways to prepare for and recover from natural disasters like
hurricanes. CDC issued thirteen awards to investigators partnering with public
health partners in Sandy affected disaster areas. Five research projects
administered by the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health
addressed health hazard exposure, recognition, and mitigation among response
workers and volunteers. The eight cooperative agreements administered by CPR
(five coordinated by National Center for Environmental Health investigators,
three by CPR) focused on the topic areas of mold mitigation and related health
issues, characterization of death and disease after the hurricane, and
evaluation of public health systems response.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Hurricane Sandy Research Portfolio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hurricane Sandy Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hurricane Sandy FactsheetCdc-pdf

Preparedness and Emergency Response Research Centers (PERRCs) Program

PERRCs conducted research to evaluate the structure, capabilities, and
performance of public health systems for preparedness and emergency response.
In 2008, the CDC awarded five-year research grants to seven accredited schools
of public health to establish PERRCs. In 2009, CDC awarded four-year grants to
two additional schools of public health to establish PERRCs. All nine research
centers received an additional year of funding in 2013 to further develop and
translate evidence-based PHPR tools into practice.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * PERRC Awards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * PERRC Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * PERRC Toolkit InventoryExternal

### Other Prior Research Projects

Practice Driven Research Agenda

In 2013 the CDC awarded a two-year contract to NORC at the University of
Chicago to conduct a mixed methods study identifying areas of public health
preparedness and response that require additional research to validate,
improve, and inform programmatic operations, policy decisions, and public
health practices, based on the perceptions of practice community leaders and
CDC subject matter experts.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * **Publication:** Identifying and Prioritizing Information Needs and Research Priorities of Public Health Emergency Preparedness and Response PractitionersExternal

Assessment of the Public Health Preparedness Capabilities: National Standards
for State and Local Planning

This two-year research contract was awarded to Avar Consulting, Inc. to
evaluate the CDC's Public Health Preparedness Capabilities published in 2011.
Avar conducted a survey and follow-up focus group with the 62 awardees of the
CDC Public Health Emergency Preparedness cooperative agreement program, to
understand to what extend the awardees view the fifteen capabilities

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * **Publication:** How Health Department Contextual Factors Affect Public Health Preparedness (PHP) and Perceptions of the 15 PHP CapabilitiesExternal

Health Sector Resilience Checklist for Highly Infectious Diseases

This one-year contract was awarded to the UPMC Center for Health Security to
develop an evidence-informed checklist that outlines action steps for medical
and public health authorities, in partnership with nongovernmental
organizations and private industry, to assess and strengthen the resilience of
their community's health sector in the face of Ebola Virus Disease and other
highly infectious diseases.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Final Project ReportCdc-pdfExternal

A Community Checklist for Health Sector Resilience Informed by Hurricane Sandy

This research contract was awarded to the UPMC Center for Health Security in
2014 to investigate health sector lessons learned from Hurricane Sandy and
identify practical steps communities can take to improve health sector
resilience to future disasters.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Final Project ReportCdc-pdfExternal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * **Publication:**A Community Checklist for Health Sector Resilience Informed by Hurricane SandyExternal

Policy Formation and Implementation in Response to Ebola Virus

This one-year contract was awarded to the Johns Hopkins University Center for
Health Security in 2016 to investigate why states may have deviated from CDC
issued guidance during the 2014 United States domestic Ebola Virus outbreak
response, both in formation and implementation of domestic response policies,
and to find out what federal partners can do to assist states in making
science-based decisions in response to disease outbreaks.

Assessing the Impact of Federal and State Law on Public Health Preparedness

In 2007, the CDC awarded a three-year translational research grant to the
University of Michigan School of Public Health to examine how the law shapes
the public health system's preparedness activities and its response to a wide
range of public health threats. Investigators conducted case studies in nine
states and interviewed key federal officials to investigate the
interpretation, implementation, and consistency of applicable laws, and
examine legal facilitators and barriers to preparedness efforts.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * **Publication:** Achieving public health legal preparedness: how dissonant views on public health law threaten emergency preparedness and responseExternal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * **Publication:**The role of law in public health preparedness: opportunities and challengesExternal

A Health Security Card (HSC) for Disasters and Public Health Emergencies

In 2009, the CDC awarded a three-year translational research grant to the
American Medical Association Center for Public Health Preparedness and
Disaster Response. The project sought to understand what personalized health
information and device could be used that carried essential data elements to
identify individuals and meet their immediate health needs in the first four
days after a public health disaster.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * **Publication:** Personal Derived health Information: A Foundation to Preparing the US for Disasters and Public Health Emergencies External

Page last reviewed: November 23, 2018, 07:30 AM

Content source: Center for Preparedness and Response

home Center for Preparedness and Response

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What We Doplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ready for Emergencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Public Health Preparedness and Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emergency Operations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State and Local Readiness (PHEP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Laboratory Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Safeguarding Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Poliovirus Containment 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Global Preparedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Vulnerable Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Why it Matters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Who We Areplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Leadership
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Organization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Divisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Emergency Preparedness Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prepare Your Healthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Personal Health Preparednessplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Personal Needs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prescriptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Paperwork
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Power Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Practical Skills
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Plan Aheadplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stay Healthy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stay Informed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stay In Contact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Create Communityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Care For Each Other
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Get Involved
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Emergency Operationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDCâs EOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How It Works
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emergency Management Fellowship
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stories and Blogs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Situation Awareness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State and Local Readiness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * U.S. National Authority for Containment of Poliovirus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Select Agents and Toxinsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Federal Select Agent Programplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * What is a Select Agent?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Regulation of Select Agents and Toxins
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Enforcement of Regulations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Import Permit Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stories and Blogs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports and Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Program Reviews and Progress Updatesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC 90-Day Internal Review
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Progress Towards Change
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Science and Public Health Practice plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Current Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prior Research 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Research Funding Opportunity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Board of Scientific Counselorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Member Roster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Member Profiles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Meeting Schedule
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Meeting Minutes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policy & Partnershipsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Successful Partnerships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stay Connectedplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Become a Partner
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Partner Tools and Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * NGA Webinars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communication Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Blog
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Social Media Graphics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Campaignsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Preparedness Monthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preparedness Month 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preparedness Month 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preparedness Month 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preparedness Month 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Safe and Well Selfie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ready Wrigley!plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Books
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zombie Preparednessplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zombie Graphic Novel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prep Your Health Chat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Resources & Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Trainingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Whole Community Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Meta-Leadership Summit for Preparedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Preparedness and Emergency Response Learning Centers

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-twitter-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-
fb-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-phm-24px.jpg)
![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-in-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-
pin-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-govd-24px.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM

