https://www.cdc.gov/fungal/diseases/sporotrichosis/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/fungal/diseases/sporotrichosis/index.html    
                Description: Sporotrichosis is a rare infection caused by a fungus called Sporothrix. This fungus lives throughout the world in soil and on plant matter such as sphagnum moss, rose bushes, and hay.    
                Keywords: fungi,  fungal,  infection,  fungus,  opportunistic infections,  hospital-associated infections,  community-acquired infections,  public health,  outbreaks,  monitoring,  prevention guidelines,  interventions strategies,  laboratory activities,  equipping laboratories, Fungal Diseases    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Fungal Diseases

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

# Sporotrichosis

Minus

Related Pages

### About

##### What is sporotrichosis?

Sporotrichosis (also known as "rose gardener's disease") is an infection
caused by a fungus called _Sporothrix_. This fungus lives throughout the world
in soil and on plant matter such as sphagnum moss, rose bushes, and hay.1,2
People get sporotrichosis by coming in contact with the fungal spores in the
environment. Cutaneous (skin) infection is the most common form of the
infection. It occurs when the fungus enters the skin through a small cut or
scrape, usually after someone touches contaminated plant matter. Skin on the
hands or arms is most commonly affected.

##### Types of sporotrichosis

                    * **Cutaneous (skin) sporotrichosis** is the most common form of the infection. It usually occurs on a person's hand or the arm after touching contaminated plant matter.
                    * **Pulmonary (lung) sporotrichosis** is rare but can happen after someone breathes in fungal spores from the environment.
                    * **Disseminated sporotrichosis** occurs when the infection spreads to another part of the body, such as bones, joints, or central nervous system. This form of sporotrichosis usually affects people with health problems or who take medicines that lower the body's ability to fight germs and sickness, such as people living with HIV (see Risk & Prevention).

![Photomicrograph showing Sporothrix
schenckii.](/fungal/images/sporotr-150px.jpg)

Photomicrograph showing _Sporothrix schenckii_.

Sporotrichosis has also been caused by scratches or bites from animals,
particularly cats. Learn more about _Sporothrix brasiliensis_ , a fungus that
cats are spreading in Brazil and other areas of South America.

### Symptoms

The symptoms of sporotrichosis depend on where the fungus is growing in the
body. Contact your healthcare provider if you have symptoms that you think are
related to sporotrichosis.

Sporotrichosis usually affects the skin or tissues underneath the skin. The
first symptom of **cutaneous (skin) sporotrichosis** is usually a small,
painless bump that can develop any time from 1 to 12 weeks after exposure to
the fungus. The bump can be red, pink, or purple, and usually appears on the
finger, hand, or arm where the fungus has entered through a break in the skin.
The bump will eventually grow larger and may look like an open sore or ulcer
that is very slow to heal. Additional bumps or sores may appear later near the
original one.

**Pulmonary (lung) sporotrichosis** is rare. Symptoms include cough, shortness
of breath, chest pain, and fever.

Symptoms of **disseminated sporotrichosis** depend on the body part affected.
For example, infection of the joints can cause joint pain that may be confused
with rheumatoid arthritis. Infections of the central nervous system can
involve difficulty thinking, headache, and seizures.

### Risk & Prevention

##### Who gets sporotrichosis?

![Women planting flowers in garden](/fungal/images/14200_lores-planting-
flowers-sporo.jpg)

People who touch plant matter such as sphagnum moss, rose bushes, or hay are
more likely to become infected. For example, sporotrichosis outbreaks have
occurred among forestry workers, people who work in tree nurseries and garden
centers, and people who handle hay bales.

The severe forms of sporotrichosis (those that affect the lungs, bones or
joints, or central nervous system) usually affect people with weakened immune
systems or other diseases including diabetes, chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease (COPD), alcoholism, or HIV.1,3,4

##### How can I lower the chance of developing sporotrichosis?

You can lower the chance of getting sporotrichosis by wearing protective
clothing such as gloves and long sleeves when touching plant matter that can
cause minor cuts or scrapes.

In Brazil, people have gotten sporotrichosis from contact with cats. This form
of sporotrichosis ( _Sporothrix brasiliensis_ ) has not been found in the
United States. Be careful with unfamiliar animals, particularly cats. Cat
bites and scratches can spread the fungus that causes sporotrichosis, and
other diseases. This fungus is most often spread by stray cats and pet cats
that are allowed outdoors. Learn more about sporotrichosis from cats.

### Sources

![Picture of moss, hay, roses, kitten](/fungal/images/sporo-sources.jpg)

Sporotrichosis is often linked to sphagnum moss, rose bushes, hay, or animal
scratches or bites.

**The fungus that causes sporotrichosis lives in the environment.  **

_Sporothrix_ , the fungus that causes sporotrichosis, lives in the environment
in soil and on plant matter such as sphagnum moss, rose bushes, hay, or wood.
The microscopic fungus can enter the skin through small cuts or scrapes. In
rare cases, breathing in the fungus can cause a pulmonary (lung) infection.
The type of sporotrichosis found in North America is not contagious and can't
spread from person to person. However, in South America, a type of
sporotrichosis caused by _Sporothrix brasiliensis_ spreads through scratches
or bites from animals, particularly cats. (This fungal illness is not cat-
scratch disease, a bacterial illness spread by cats - which occurs worldwide,
wherever cats live.)

### Diagnosis & Testing

#### How is sporotrichosis diagnosed?

Your healthcare provider will take a small tissue sample (biopsy) of the
infected area of the body for laboratory tests. The laboratory will usually
perform a fungal culture to find out what is causing the infection. Blood
tests can help diagnose severe sporotrichosis, but usually can't diagnose skin
infections.

### Treatment

#### How is sporotrichosis treated?

Most cases of sporotrichosis only involve the skin or the tissues underneath
the skin. These infections are not life-threatening, but must be treated with
prescription antifungal medicine for several months. The most common treatment
for this type of sporotrichosis is itraconazole, taken by mouth for 3 to 6
months. Supersaturated potassium iodide (SSKI) is another treatment option for
skin sporotrichosis. SSKI and azole drugs like itraconazole should not be used
if you are pregnant.

If you have severe sporotrichosis that affects your lungs, bones, joints, or
central nervous system, you'll probably receive intravenous amphotericin B
medicine, which is given through a vein. After the first treatment with
amphotericin B, you may receive itraconazole by mouth, for a total of at least
1 year of antifungal treatment. People with sporotrichosis in the lungs may
also need surgery to cut away the infected tissue.

Healthcare providers: For detailed treatment guidelines, please refer to the
Infectious Diseases Society of America's Clinical Practice Guidelines for the
Management of Sporotrichosis pdf icon[PDF - 11 pages]external icon.

### Statistics

#### How common is sporotrichosis?

Diagnosed sporotrichosis is rare, but the number of cases is difficult to
determine because there is no national surveillance for it in the United
States. Population-based incidence estimates for sporotrichosis were obtained
from laboratory surveillance in the San Francisco Bay Area during 1992-1993
and suggested a yearly rate of less than one case per 1 million population.5
However, more mild infections may not be diagnosed. Sporotrichosis may be more
common in other parts of the world, such as Latin America.2 For example, in
the state of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, more than 2,200 cases were reported
during 1998-2009.6 Another study suggested a rate of 48 to 60 sporotrichosis
cases per 100,000 population in the south central highlands of Peru.7

#### Sporotrichosis outbreaks

In the United States, sporotrichosis outbreaks have occurred among people who
touched sphagnum moss or hay, such as forestry workers,8,9 tree nursery and
garden center workers,10-12 and people who worked with or played on hay
bales.13-16 Sporotrichosis outbreaks also have been reported in several other
countries, including Australia, Brazil, China, Guatemala, and South Africa.2
Healthcare providers who are concerned about an unusual number of new cases
should contact their state or local public health agency.

An ongoing outbreak of sporotrichosis is occurring in some cities in Brazil,
where the infection has become common in outdoor cats and can spread to humans
through bites or scratches. Learn more about this problem.

More Resources



##### MMWR Articles:

                    * Multistate Outbreak of Sporotrichosis in Seedling Handlers, 1988. MMWR 1988; 37:652-3.
                    * Sporotrichosis Among Hay-Mulching Workers - Oklahoma, New Mexico. MMWR 1984; 33:682-3.
                    * Sporotrichosis Associated with Wisconsin Sphagnum Moss. MMWR 1982; 31:542-4.

##### Related Links

                    * Infectious Diseases Society of America's Clinical Practice Guidelines for the Management of Sporotrichosisexternal icon

References

                    1. Barros MB, de Almeida Paes R, Schubach AO. _Sporothrix schenckii_ and Sporotrichosis. Clinical microbiology reviews. 2011 Oct;24(4):633-54.
                    2. Chakrabarti A, Bonifaz A, Gutierrez-Galhardo MC, Mochizuki T, Li S. Global epidemiology of sporotrichosis. Med Mycol. 2015 Jan;53(1):3-14.
                    3. Kauffman CA. Sporotrichosis. Clin Infect Dis. 1999 Aug;29(2):231-6.
                    4. Aung AK, Teh BM, McGrath C, Thompson PJ. Pulmonary sporotrichosis: case series and systematic analysis of literature on clinico-radiological patterns and management outcomes. Med Mycol. 2013 Jul;51(5):534-44.
                    5. Rees JR, Pinner RW, Hajjeh RA, Brandt ME, Reingold AL. The epidemiological features of invasive mycotic infections in the San Francisco Bay area, 1992-1993: results of population-based laboratory active surveillance. Clin Infect Dis. 1998 Nov;27(5):1138-47.
                    6. Barros MB, Schubach TP, Coll JO, Gremiao ID, Wanke B, Schubach A. [Sporotrichosis: development and challenges of an epidemic]. Pan American journal of public health. 2010 Jun;27(6):455-60.
                    7. Pappas PG, Tellez I, Deep AE et al. Sporotrichosis in Peru: description of an area of hyperendemicity. Clin Infect Dis 2000; 30: 65-70.
                    8. Powell KE, Taylor A, Phillips BJ, Blakey DL, Campbell GD, Kaufman L, et al. Cutaneous sporotrichosis in forestry workers. Epidemic due to contaminated Sphagnum moss. JAMA. 1978 Jul 21;240(3):232-5.
                    9. Coles FB, Schuchat A, Hibbs JR, Kondracki SF, Salkin IF, Dixon DM, et al. A multistate outbreak of sporotrichosis associated with sphagnum moss. Am J Epidemiol. 1992 Aug 15;136(4):475-87.
                    10. Hajjeh R, McDonnell S, Reef S, Licitra C, Hankins M, Toth B, et al. Outbreak of sporotrichosis among tree nursery workers. J Infect Dis. 1997 Aug;176(2):499-504.
                    11. D'Alessio D, Leavens LJ, Strumpf GB, Smith CD. An Outbreak of Sporotrichosis in Vermont Associated with Sphagnum Moss as the Source of Infection. NEJM. 1965 May 20;272:1054-8.
                    12. CDC. Sporotrichosis associated with Wisconsin sphagnum moss. MMWR. 1982 Oct 15;31(40):542-4.
                    13. Dooley DP, Bostic PS, Beckius ML. Spook house sporotrichosis. A point-source outbreak of sporotrichosis associated with hay bale props in a Halloween haunted-house. Arch Internal Med. 1997 Sep 8;157(16):1885-7.
                    14. CDC. Sporotrichosis among hay-mulching workers-Oklahoma, New Mexico. MMWR. 1984 Dec 7;33(48):682-3.
                    15. Laur WE, Posey RE, Waller JD. A familial epidemic of cutaneous sporotrichosis occurring in north Texas. Cutis. 1979 Feb;23(2):205-8.
                    16. Dahl BA, Silberfarb PM, Sarosi GA, Weeks RJ, Tosh FE. Sporotrichosis in children. Report of an epidemic. JAMA. 1971 Mar 22;215(12):1980-2.

Top of Page

Page last reviewed: November 13, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Foodborne,
Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases (DFWED)

home Fungal Diseases

                    * About Fungal Diseases
                    * Types of Fungal Diseasesplus icon
                      * Aspergillosisplus icon
                        * About
                        * Symptoms
                        * People at Risk & Prevention
                        * Sources
                        * Diagnosis & Testing
                        * Treatment
                        * Healthcare Professionals
                        * Statistics
                        * Azole-resistant _Aspergillus_
                        * More Resources
                        * en espaÃ±olplus icon
                          * DefiniciÃ³n
                          * SÃ­ntomas
                          * Riesgo y prevenciÃ³n
                          * Fuentes 
                          * DiagnÃ³stico y pruebas
                          * Tratamiento
                          * Profesionales de la salud 
                          * EstadÃ­sticas
                      * Blastomycosisplus icon
                        * About
                        * Symptoms
                        * Risk & Prevention
                        * Sources
                        * Diagnosis & Testing
                        * Treatment & Outcomes
                        * Health Professionals
                        * Statistics
                        * More Resources
                      * Candidiasisplus icon
                        * _Candida_ infections of the mouth, throat, and esophagus
                        * Vaginal candidiasis
                        * Invasive candidiasisplus icon
                          * About
                          * Symptoms
                          * Risk & Prevention
                          * Sources
                          * Diagnosis
                          * Treatment
                          * Statistics
                          * Healthcare Professionals 
                          * More Resources
                      * _Candida auris_
                      * Coccidioidomycosisplus icon
                        * About
                        * Symptoms
                        * People at Risk & Prevention
                        * Sources
                        * Maps
                        * Diagnosis & Testing
                        * Treatment & Outcomes
                        * Health Professionalsplus icon
                          * Valley Fever: Timely Diagnosis, Early Assessment, and Proper Management
                        * Statistics
                        * More Resourcesplus icon
                          * Mission and Community Service Groups: Be Aware of Valley Fever
                        * en espaÃ±olplus icon
                          * DefiniciÃ³n
                          * SÃ­ntomas
                          * Las Personas en Riesgo y PrevenciÃ³n
                          * Fuentes
                          * DiagnÃ³stico y ExÃ¡menes
                          * Tratamiento y Resultados
                          * Profesionales de la Salud
                          * EstadÃ­sticas
                      * _C. neoformans_ Infectionplus icon
                        * About
                        * Symptoms
                        * People at Risk & Prevention
                        * Sources
                        * Diagnosis & Testing
                        * Treatment & Outcomes
                        * Health Professionals
                        * Statistics
                        * More Resources 
                      * _C. gattii_ Infectionplus icon
                        * About
                        * Symptoms
                        * People at Risk & Prevention
                        * Sources
                        * Diagnosis & Testing
                        * Treatment & Outcomes
                        * Statistics
                        * More Resources
                      * Fungal Eye Infectionsplus icon
                        * About
                        * Symptoms
                        * People at Risk & Prevention
                        * Sources
                        * Diagnosis & Testing
                        * Treatment & Outcomes
                        * Statistics
                        * More Resources
                      * Fungal Nail Infections
                      * Histoplasmosisplus icon
                        * About
                        * Symptoms
                        * People at Risk & Prevention
                        * Sources
                        * Maps
                        * Diagnosis & Testing
                        * Treatment & Outcomes
                        * Health Professionals
                        * Statistics
                        * More Resources
                      * Mucormycosisplus icon
                        * About
                        * Symptoms
                        * People at Risk & Prevention
                        * Sources
                        * Diagnosis & Testing
                        * Treatment
                        * Health Professionals
                        * Statistics
                        * More Resources
                      * Mycetomaplus icon
                        * Information for Health Professionals
                      * _Pneumocystis_ pneumonia
                      * Ringwormplus icon
                        * About
                        * Symptoms
                        * People at Risk & Prevention
                        * Sources
                        * Diagnosis & Testing
                        * Treatment & Outcomes
                        * Health Professionals
                        * Use of Steroid Creams
                        * More Resources
                      * Sporotrichosisplus icon
                        * _Sporothrix brasiliensis_
                      * Other Fungal Diseasesplus icon
                        * Paracoccidioidomycosis
                        * Talaromycosis
                    * Who Gets Fungal Infections?plus icon
                      * People living with HIV/AIDS
                      * Organ Transplant Patients
                      * Cancer Patients 
                      * Hospitalized Patients
                      * Stem Cell Transplant Patients 
                      * Medications that Weaken Your Immune System
                    * Outbreaksplus icon
                      * For Public Health and Healthcare Professionals
                      * Whole Genome Sequencing and Fungal Disease Outbreaks
                    * CDC at Workplus icon
                      * Burden of Fungal Diseases in the U.S.
                    * Global Fungal Diseasesplus icon
                      * Cryptococcal Meningitis
                      * Histoplasmosis
                    * Antifungal Resistance
                    * Think Fungus: Fungal Disease Awareness Weekplus icon
                      * Social Media Messages
                    * Resourcesplus icon
                      * Fungal Disease Personal Storiesplus icon
                        * Terriâs Story
                        * Mauricioâs Story
                        * Dawnâs Story
                        * Sabineâs Story
                        * Heidiâs Story
                        * Kevinâs Story
                        * Kenâs Story
                      * Educational Materials
                      * Resources for Health Professionals
                      * Laboratory Submission Information
                      * Reportable Fungal Diseases by State
                      * Features
                      * Isolate submission opportunity: Monitoring for Azole Resistance in _Aspergillus fumigatus_

Related Links

                    * Fungal Meningitis
                    * National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Disease
                    * Division of Foodborne, Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases
                    * Mycotic Diseases Branch

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

