https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/whyitmatters/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/whyitmatters/index.html    
                Description: Center for Preparedness and Response    
                Keywords: preparedness,  response,  health,  threats,  toxins,  bioterrorism,  disasters,  emergency,  prepared, Public Health Preparedness and Response    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Center for Preparedness and Response

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Why it Matters: Stories From the Field

Minus

Related Pages

![Mand and women working at health
booth](/cpr/whyitmatters/00_images/zikafight_stories_6-medium.jpg)

CDC is committed to strengthening the nation's health security by protecting
against public health threats, whether they begin at home or abroad, or if
they are natural or man-made. We know that when we don't respond quickly and
to scale, outbreaks become epidemics, natural disasters become crucibles for
illness, and the human toll of terrorist attacks can mount.

State and local health departments must stand ready to handle many different
types of emergencies that threaten the health and resilience of families,
communities, and the nation. Having people who know what to do, and having the
resources in place to allow them to do their jobs, saves lives.

As one of the nation's most critical public health investments,pdf iconpdf
icon we have an obligation to capture our work through stories from the field
and share lessons that inform our strategy over time for CDC's preparedness
and response investments.

**LRN Lab Quickly Identifies Dangerous Pathogen and Saves Patient's Life**

![Squirrel Syringe Feeding](/cpr/whyitmatters/00_images/FTularensisThumb.jpg)

In spring 2018, an Oregon resident arrived at an urgent care center with a
fever, chest pain, body aches, and vomiting. Her physician suspected bacterial
pneumonia and prescribed an antibiotic. What the clinician didn't know was
that the patient had been exposed to a bacterium called _Francisella
tularensis_ ( _F. tularensis_ ), which can cause a life-threatening illness.

More

 **In Nebraska, Training is Key to a Strong Laboratory Response Network**

![microscope with lab
glassware](/cpr/whyitmatters/00_images/NebraskaBiosafetyThumb.jpg)

Nebraska's communities rely on clinical labs to quickly identify dangerous
pathogens, particularly during emergencies like a biological terrorism
incident or an infectious disease outbreak. Because these laboratories handle
potentially dangerous pathogens, it is critical that laboratory staff are
trained in the most effective identification methods.

More

 **Supporting State and Local Health Departments**

![Woman handing out
flyers](/cpr/whyitmatters/00_images/HealthDepartmentTHUMB.jpg)

CDC has placed preparedness staff across the nation to support state and local
health departments. In 2017, 90 Public Health Emergency Preparedness (PHEP)
Cooperative Agreement-funded field staff were assigned to 58 different awardee
locations, including 46 states, 4 localities, and 8 U.S. territories.

More

 **Stopping Polio in the Middle East**

![Scientist Working in a Lab](/cpr/whyitmatters/00_images/Polio-THUMB.jpg)

In 2013, a case of acute flaccid paralysis was detected in Syria by the Early
Warning Alert and Response Network, a joint surveillance system managed by the
World Health Organization and CDC. Soon after, more patient specimens were
tested in the laboratory and found positive for polio. In all, thirty-six
cases of polio were identified in Syria, followed by 2 more cases in Iraq…

More

 **Zika  Stories: From the Field**

![Zika Information Table](/cpr/whyitmatters/00_images/Zika-THUMB.jpg)

CDC has linked corporate partners with local health departments to help fight
Zika in areas most affected by the virus. Through this strategy, corporate
partners like Home Depot, Ace Hardware, and Walgreens co-sponsored community
events known as Zika Action Days with local health departments; corporate
partners have helped get Zika prevention information and products along with
Zika Prevention Kits for pregnant women to community members who attended
events in Puerto Rico, the US Virgin Islands, American Samoa, and Florida.

More

 **Hurricane Stories: From the Field**

![SNS Hurricane Infographic](/cpr/whyitmatters/00_images/SNS-THUMB.jpg)

Federal Medical Station strike teams--teams of logistics experts deployed to
assist with set up--arrived in Houston, TX, just hours after Hurricane Harvey
made landfall. According to Steve Holland, a member of one of the strike
teams, "Once we received orders to move the supplies to Houston, our Strategic
National Stockpile liaison coordinated with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,
Firearms, and Explosives to plan a route for us…

More

 **Meeting  The Needs of Vulnerable Populations**

![Vulnerable Populations](/cpr/whyitmatters/00_images/VulnerablePopulations-
THUMB.jpg)

During the 2017 Hurricane Response, the EOC's At-Risk Task Force collaborated
with the Federal Emergency Management Agency to create American Sign Language
videos with information on flood cleanup and mold safety.

More

 **Understanding Community Resilience and Recovery after Disasters**

![Recovery after disaster](/cpr/whyitmatters/00_images/RecoveryAfterDisaster-
THUMB.jpg)

The United States experienced severe hurricanes, wildfires, and other natural
disasters in 2017. These events highlight the importance of community
resilience, the sustained ability of communities to withstand and recover from
adversity…

More

 **States Race Against Deadly Opioid Epidemic**

![States Race Against Deadly Opioid
Epidemic](/cpr/whyitmatters/00_images/stories_thumb_2.jpg)

More than 52,000 people died from drug overdoses in 2015; among those, more
than 33,000 involved a prescription or illicit opioid. Standing on the front
lines of the U.S. opioid epidemic are state and local emergency response
systems. As states like Virginia and Massachusetts declare public health
emergencies, they draw on the infrastructure that CDC has helped build
nationwide since 9/11 to empower first responders, improve surveillance, and
develop critical laboratory tests

More

 **Behind the Clipboard: Laboratory Inspectors**

![States Race Against Deadly Opioid
Epidemic](/cpr/whyitmatters/00_images/stories_thumb_3.jpg)

CDC's laboratory inspectors keep tabs on the nation's critical select agent
and toxin laboratories. Laboratory inspections generally last about 3 days and
require that inspectors travel to sites all over the country, usually going
out about once a month. And the job is never dull…

More

 **Rapid Response Teams Help States Combat Zika**

![Rapid Response Teams Help States Combat
Zika](/cpr/whyitmatters/00_images/stories_thumb_4.jpg)

When states reach out for help, a CDC Emergency Response Team (CERT) stands
ready to answer the call. A CERT is a highly trained group of public health
experts who can travel anywhere in the country to meet the unique needs of
requesting states. It is a flexible team that can give as much - or as little
- support as requested, whether it's sending epidemiologists, laboratorians,
and vector control experts into the field or providing answers from
headquarters

More

 **Lost And Found In the Marshall Islands**

![Lost And Found In the Marshall
Islands](/cpr/whyitmatters/00_images/stories_thumb_5.jpg)

In the Republic of the Marshall Islands, homes do not have street names or
numbers. Instead, they're identified by color or by another identifying
symbol. Without addresses, how would Zika responders and contractors find the
places where help was needed?

More

 **Ensuring States, Localities, And Territories Are Ready to Fight Zika**

![Ensuring States, Localities, And Territories Are Ready to Fight
Zika](/cpr/whyitmatters/00_images/stories_thumb_6.jpg)

To make sure the latest science is available for state, local, and territorial
health departments during a public health emergency, CDC activates the State
Coordination Task Force (SCTF) within the Emergency Operations Center. The
task force has been instrumental during the Zika response in helping
communities prepare for and respond to the outbreak

More

 **Triple-Threat Lab Test Simplifies Disease Detection**

![Triple-Threat Lab Test Simplifies Disease
Detection](/cpr/whyitmatters/00_images/stories_thumb_7.jpg)

Before the current Zika outbreak - in 2015 - CDC had already begun developing
the Trioplex Real-time RT-PCR (rRT-PCR) Assay. The Trioplex allows labs to
detect three viruses at once: chikungunya, dengue, and Zika. These viruses
often occur in the same areas, are carried by the same mosquito, and cause
similar symptoms in patients

More

 **Investing in People Stops Outbreaks Faster**

![Investing in People Stops Outbreaks
Faster](/cpr/whyitmatters/00_images/stories_thumb_8.jpg)

When Dr. Aristide Abah stepped off the plane that brought him from Atlanta
back to his home in Cameroon, there was no time to waste. An outbreak of H5N1
flu threatened the country, and it was up to Dr. Abah to lead the response…

More

 **Connecting Research to Improve Response**

![Connecting Research to Improve
Response](/cpr/whyitmatters/00_images/stories_thumb_9.jpg)

After Superstorm Sandy, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services,
including CDC, funded 31 projects to evaluate resiliency and recovery in areas
related to healthcare delivery, the public health system response, risk
communication, worker safety, environmental and occupational hazards, and the
physical and mental health impacts on the general population

More

Page last reviewed: October 11, 2019, 07:55 AM

Content source: Center for Preparedness and Response

home Center for Preparedness and Response

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What We Doplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ready for Emergencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Public Health Preparedness and Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emergency Operations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State and Local Readiness (PHEP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Laboratory Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Safeguarding Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Poliovirus Containment 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Global Preparedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Vulnerable Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Why it Matters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Who We Areplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Leadership
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Organization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Divisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Emergency Preparedness Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prepare Your Healthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Personal Health Preparednessplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Personal Needs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prescriptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Paperwork
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Power Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Practical Skills
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Plan Aheadplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stay Healthy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stay Informed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stay In Contact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Create Communityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Care For Each Other
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Get Involved
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Emergency Operationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDCâs EOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How It Works
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emergency Management Fellowship
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stories and Blogs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Situation Awareness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State and Local Readiness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * U.S. National Authority for Containment of Poliovirus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Select Agents and Toxinsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Federal Select Agent Programplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * What is a Select Agent?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Regulation of Select Agents and Toxins
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Enforcement of Regulations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Import Permit Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stories and Blogs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports and Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Program Reviews and Progress Updatesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC 90-Day Internal Review
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Progress Towards Change
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Science and Public Health Practice plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Current Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prior Research 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Research Funding Opportunity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Board of Scientific Counselorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Member Roster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Member Profiles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Meeting Schedule
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Meeting Minutes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policy & Partnershipsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Successful Partnerships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stay Connectedplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Become a Partner
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Partner Tools and Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * NGA Webinars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communication Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Blog
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Social Media Graphics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Campaignsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Preparedness Monthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preparedness Month 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preparedness Month 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preparedness Month 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preparedness Month 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Safe and Well Selfie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ready Wrigley!plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Books
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zombie Preparednessplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zombie Graphic Novel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prep Your Health Chat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Resources & Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Trainingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Whole Community Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Meta-Leadership Summit for Preparedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Preparedness and Emergency Response Learning Centers

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-twitter-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-
fb-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-phm-24px.jpg)
![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-in-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-
pin-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-govd-24px.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM

