https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/bsc/member_profiles.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/bsc/member_profiles.htm    
                Description: Center for Preparedness and Response    
                Keywords: preparedness,  response,  health,  threats,  toxins,  bioterrorism,  disasters,  emergency,  prepared, Public Health Preparedness and Response    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Center for Preparedness and Response

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Member Profiles

Minus

Related Pages

### CHAIR

Suzet M. McKinney, DrPH, MPH

![Suzet M. McKinney](/cpr/bsc/images/McKinney.jpg)

**Suzet McKinney, DrPH, MPH, CEO/Executive Director, Illinois Medical
District**

Dr. Suzet M. McKinney currently serves as CEO/Executive Director of the
Illinois Medical District, a 24/7/365 environment that includes 560 acres of
medical research facilities, labs, a biotech business incubator, universities,
raw land development areas and more than 40 healthcare related facilities. Dr.
McKinney is the former Deputy Commissioner of the Bureau of Public Health
Preparedness and Emergency Response at the Chicago Department of Public Health
(CDPH), where she oversaw the emergency preparedness efforts for the
Department and coordinated those efforts within the larger spectrum of the
City of Chicago's Public Safety activities, in addition to overseeing the
Department's Division of Women and Children's Health.

Dr. McKinney serves on numerous committees and advisory boards. Current board
memberships include the Board of Directors for Susan G. Komen Chicago,
Thresholds, and the Fifth Third Bank Advisory Board. Dr. McKinney is Co-Chair
of the National Academies of Science, Engineering and Medicine (NASEM), Health
and Medicine Division's Forum on Medical and Public Health Preparedness for
Disasters and Emergencies and is a member of the NASEM Board on Health
Sciences Policy. She also serves on the Science and Security Board for the
Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, and chairs the Board of Scientific
Counselors for the U.S. Centers for Disease Control, Office of Public Health
Preparedness and Response. She has served as an Incident Commander for CDPH
where she was responsible for leading multiple emergency response efforts,
including Chicago's 2014-2015 Ebola response, the operational response to the
2009 H1N1 outbreak, and CDPH's participation in the 2012 NATO Summit response
and the 2010 Haiti Earthquake response.

In academia, Dr. McKinney serves as an Instructor in the Division of
Translational Policy and Leadership Development at Harvard University's T.H.
Chan School of Public Health and as Adjunct Assistant Professor of
Environmental and Occupational Health Sciences at the University of Illinois
at Chicago School of Public Health. She also serves as a mentor for the
Biomedical Sciences Careers Project, also at Harvard University.

Dr. McKinney holds her Doctorate degree from the University of Illinois at
Chicago School of Public Health, with a focus on preparedness planning,
leadership and workforce development. She received her Bachelor of Arts in
Biology from Brandeis University (Waltham, MA) where she was also a Howard
Hughes Medical Institute Fellow. She received her Master of Public Health
degree (Health Care Administration) and certificates in Managed Care and
Health Care Administration from Benedictine University in Lisle, IL.

### MEMBERS

David Fleming, MD

![David Fleming](/cpr/bsc/images/fleming.png)

**David Fleming, MD, Vice President of Global Health Programs, PATH, Seattle,
Washington**

As Vice President of Global Health Programs at PATH, Dr. Fleming oversees
PATH's presence in country offices and is responsible for PATH's scientific
expertise in sexual and reproductive health; maternal, newborn, child health,
and nutrition; noncommunicable diseases; malaria; neglected tropical diseases;
HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis; health systems innovation and delivery; and digital
health. Dr. Fleming also leads the divisional strategy, directs the Global
Health Programs senior leadership team, and serves as an organizational
representative with PATH donors and partners.

Dr. Fleming possesses more than 30 years of experience in public health
leadership. Prior to PATH, Dr. Fleming served as the director and health
officer for Public Health - Seattle and King County (PHSKC). He has previously
held positions as the director of Global Health Strategies at the Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation, as the Deputy Director at the US Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention (CDC), and as the State Epidemiologist for the Oregon
Health Division.

Jennifer A. Horney, PhD, MPH, CPH

![Jennifer A. Horney, PhD, MPH, CPH](/cpr/bsc/images/JenHorney.jpg)

**Jennifer A. Horney, PhD, MPH, CPH, Professor and Director, Program in
Epidemiology, College of Health Sciences, University of Delaware, Newark,
Delaware**

Jennifer Horney is Professor and Founding Director of the Program in
Epidemiology and Core Faculty at the Disaster Research Center at the
University of Delaware. Her research focuses on measuring the health impacts
of disasters, as well as the linkages between disaster planning and household
actions related to preparedness, response, and recovery.

Dr. Horney received her Ph.D. and MPH from the University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill, where her research focused on the role of social factors in
decision making during disasters. She has led interdisciplinary research
projects funded by the National Institute for Environmental Health Sciences,
National Science Foundation, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration,
the National Academies of Sciences, the Department of Homeland Security and
other federal, state, and local agencies.

Dr. Horney was a member of a team of public health practitioners who responded
to Hurricanes Isabel, Charley, Katrina, Wilma, Irene, and Harvey where she
conducted rapid assessments of disaster impact on the public health of
individuals and communities. She has also provided technical assistance to
public health agencies globally around disasters, infectious disease
outbreaks, and pandemic influenza planning and response.

Octavio N. Martinez, MD, MPH, MBA, FAPA

![Octavio N. Martinez, MD](/cpr/bsc/images/Martinez.png)

**David Fleming, MD, Vice President of Global Health Programs, PATH, Seattle,
Washington,** Executive Director, Hogg Foundation for Mental Health, The
University of Texas, Austin, Texas

Dr. Octavio N. Martinez, Jr. is Executive Director of the Hogg Foundation for
Mental Health at The University of Texas at Austin. Dr. Martinez holds an
appointment of Senior Associate Vice President within the university's
Division of Diversity and Community Engagement; he is also a clinical
professor in the university's School of Social Work; and holds an adjunct
professor appointment at The University of Texas Health Science Center at San
Antonio School of Medicine's Department of Psychiatry. His academic interests
include minority health, health disparities and workforce issues.

Dr. Martinez serves on NASEM's Health and Medicine Division's (HMD's) Standing
Committee on Medical and Public Health Research during Large-Scale Emergency
Events and on HMD's Roundtable on the Promotion of Health Equity and the
Elimination of Health Disparities. Dr. Martinez also serves on the National
Advisory Committee on Rural Health and Human Services to the Secretary of
Health. He was awarded a Shining Lights Award for Excellence in Hispanic
Mental Health Advocacy and Leadership in 2012 by the National Resource Center
for Hispanic Mental Health and he is a recipient of the 2008 Adolph Meyer,
M.D. Research Award in recognition of contributions in minority health and
efforts to improve the mental health of all citizens regardless of
socioeconomic status by The Center for Health Care Services.

Prior to joining the foundation in 2008, Dr. Martinez was a clinical
psychiatrist at Albemarle Mental Health Center and an affiliate associate
professor at the Brody School of Medicine in North Carolina. Before that he
was an assistant professor and psychiatrist at The University of Texas Health
Science Center at San Antonio and a Faculty Associate with the Center for
Medical Humanities and Ethics. In San Antonio he served as Director of
Psychiatric Consultation/Liaison Services for University Hospital and the
Audie L. Murphy Veterans Administration Hospital. He also was Co-Director of
Behavioral Sciences for the UTHSCSA medical school, and developed two
community psychiatric clinics for underserved areas of San Antonio.

Brent Pawlecki, MD

![Brent Pawlecki](/cpr/science/images/brent-pawlecki.jpg)

****Brent Pawlecki, MD, Chief Health Officer, The Goodyear Tire & Rubber
Company Akron, Ohio  
****  
Dr. Brent Pawlecki is the Chief Health Officer at The Goodyear Tire & Rubber
Co., a position he has held since 2011. His responsibilities in this role
include global health strategy, providing leadership for Goodyear's medical
clinics, fitness facilities, health benefits, health improvement and wellness
programs, Employee Assistance Programs, and health related emergencies.

Prior to his current role, he was the Corporate Medical Director at Pitney
Bowes, overseeing all health-related issues for the organization, including
the Pitney Bowes' award winning corporate clinics, wellness programs and
absence management department, and served as the Chief HIPAA Privacy Officer.

During his career, he worked in a private medical practice as well as the
Emergency Department. He attended college and medical school at St. Louis
University and completed a combined residency in Internal Medicine and
Pediatrics from Bridgeport Hospital and Yale University. He also completed the
Master of Medical Management Business Degree from the University of Southern
California.

Dr. Pawlecki received the 2015 Global Leadership in Corporate Health Award,
recognizing his career focused on developing and promoting workplace health
programs. He is involved with numerous organizations, including the National
Business Group on Health, National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA), and
the Coalition to Transform Advanced Care. His current focus works toward
improvements in health quality, global health, advanced illness and end of
life care.

Alonzo L. Plough, PhD, MPH

![Alonzo L. Plough](/cpr/science/images/alonzo_plough_hz_2_c.jpg)

****Alonzo L. Plough, PhD, MPH, Vice President for Research and Evaluation and
Chief Science Officer, Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Princeton, New Jersey  
****  
Alonzo L. Plough, PhD, MPH, joined the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation as vice
president, Research-Evaluation-Learning and chief science officer in January
2014. He leads the Foundations long standing focus on building the evidence
base to foster innovation in health services and systems and improve
population health. He is also responsible for Foundation-wide organizational
learning and the two program areas that support those activities, the global
and pioneer teams.

Dr. Plough brings to the Foundation his extensive leadership experience in
public health, most recently at the Los Angeles County Department of Public
Health. Plough also served 10 years as director and health officer for the
Seattle and King County Department of Public Health and before that served as
director of public health in Boston for eight years.

Dr. Plough served as vice president of strategy, planning and evaluation for
The California Endowment, a Los Angeles based health foundation from
2005-2009\. He led the Endowment's strategic planning and development,
evaluation, research, and organizational learning activities.

His academic career includes his current appointment as professor of health
services at the University of Washington, School of Public Health in Seattle
and previous faculty positions at Harvard University School of Public Health,
Tufts University Department of Community Medicine, and Boston University
School of Management. He has been the recipient of numerous awards for public
service and leadership and is the author of an extensive body of scholarly
articles, books, and book chapters.

Plough earned his PhD and MA at Cornell University, and his MPH at Yale
University School of Medicine's Department of Epidemiology and Public Health.
He did his undergraduate work at St. Olaf College, where he earned a BA.

Catherine C. Slemp, MD, MPH

![Catherine C. Slemp](/cpr/science/images/DSC00604.jpg)

**Catherine C. Slemp, MD, MPH, State Health Officer and Commissioner, Bureau
for Public Health, West Virginia Department of Health and Human Resources,
Charleston, West Virginia**

Dr. Cathy Slemp is the State Health Officer and Commissioner of the West
Virginia Bureau for Public Health. In 2008-09 she chaired ASTHO's Directors of
Public Health Preparedness. She has also worked extensively in risk
communication, serving as lead agency spokesperson for a wide variety of
public health emergencies. Prior to these roles, she was the founding director
of the state's Division of Infectious Disease Epidemiology. Throughout her
career, Dr. Slemp has worked closely with public health agencies, health care
facilities, and other partners to build both epidemiology and emergency
preparedness infrastructure within communities.

Dr. Slemp's current activities include serving as an action-learning coach for
the Public Health Institute's National Leadership Academy for the Public's
Health, working with multi-sector teams to advance health equity in
communities. She also continues to work on various efforts to both model,
measure, and advance our nation's health security and resilience. In addition,
to the Board of Scientific Counselors, Dr. Slemp serves on the National
Preparedness and Response Science Board, US Department of Health and Human
Services, Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response.

Dr. Slemp is board certified in both Public Health / Preventive Medicine and
in Family Practice. She undertook her medical training at Duke University, her
Preventive Medicine Residency and MPH at Johns Hopkins' Bloomberg School of
Public Health, and her Family Practice Residency at St. Margaret Memorial
Hospital in Pittsburgh, PA. She received her bachelor's degree from Princeton
University and has undertaken leadership training through both the Southeast
and National Public Health Leadership Institutes.

Kathleen Tierney, PhD

![Kathleen Tierney, PhD](/cpr/bsc/images/tierny.jpg)

**Kathleen Tierney, PhD, Emerita Director, University of Colorado Boulder,
Boulder, Colorado**

Kathleen Tierney has served as the director of the University of Colorado
Boulder Natural Hazards Center from 2003 until 2016. During her career she has
studied a wide range of disasters, including earthquakes in the U. S., Japan,
and Haiti; major hurricanes such as Hugo, Andrew, and Katrina; various
technological disasters, and the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, in
New York City. Her published work spans many topics, including hazard risk
perceptions, disaster warnings, organizational responses to disasters,
disaster recovery, social vulnerability to disasters, and the political
economy of disasters. She is the senior author of _Facing the Unexpected:
Emergency Preparedness and Response in the United States_ and co-editor of
_Emergency Management: Principles and Practice for Local Government_

Tierney has served as a member of the National Academies Committee on Disaster
Research in the Social Sciences, the Panel on Strategies and Methods for
Climate-Related Decision Support, and the Panel on Informing Effective
Decisions and Actions Related to Climate Change. She is currently a member of
the National Academies Committee to Advise the U. S. Global Change Research
Program. She serves on the steering committee of the American Sociological
Association's Task Force on Climate Change and on the board of directors of
the Earthquake Engineering Research Institute, and she is co-editor of the
Natural Hazards Review. Tierney received the Earthquake Engineering Research
Institute's Distinguished Lecturer Award in 2006 and the Fred Buttel Award for
Distinguished Contributions from the American Sociological Association's
Section on Environment, Technology, and Society in 2012.

Kasisomayajula Viswanath, PhD, MA, MCJ

![Kasisomayajula Viswanath](/cpr/science/images/KViswanath.jpg)

****Kasisomayajula Viswanath, PhD, MA, MCJ, Lee Kum Kee Professor of Health
Communication, Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences, Harvard T.H. Chan
School of Public Health and McGraw-Patterson Center for Population Sciences at
the Dana Farber Cancer Institute Boston, Massachusetts  
****  
Dr. K. "Vish" Viswanath is also the Faculty Director of the Health
Communication Core of the Dana-Farber/Harvard Cancer Center (DF/HCC). He is
the founding Director of DF/HCC's Enhancing Communications for Health Outcomes
(ECHO) Laboratory. He chairs the Steering Committee for the Health
Communication Concentration (HCC) at HSPH and teaches health communication
courses within this concentration.

Dr. Viswanath's work, focuses on translational communication science to
influence public health policy and practice. He has written more than 200
journal articles and book chapters concerning communication inequalities and
health disparities, knowledge translation, public health communication
campaigns, e-health and digital divide, public health preparedness and the
delivery of health communication interventions to underserved populations. Dr.
Viswanath has received awards including the Joseph W. Cullen Memorial Award
For Excellence in Tobacco Research, American Society for Preventive Oncology
(2014), the Dale Brashers Distinguished Mentorship Award, National
Communication Association (2013), Outstanding Health Communication Scholar
Award (2010) jointly given out by the International Communication Association
and the National Communication Association and the Mayhew Derryberry Award
from the American Public Health Association (APHA) for his contribution to
health education research and theory (2009). He was a member of the National
Vaccine Advisory Committee (NVAC) of the U. S. Department of Health & Human
Services and Chaired its Working Group on Vaccine Acceptance (2012-2016) and
is a member of the Board of Scientific Counselors, Office of Public Health
Preparedness, CDC. His research is supported by funding from private and
public agencies including the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

Dawn P. Wooley, PhD, SM [NRCM], RBP, CBSP

![Dawn Wooley](/cpr/bsc/images/DawnWooley.jpg)

**Dawn P. Wooley, PhD, SM [NRCM], RBP, CBSP, Professor, Wright State
University**

Dawn P. Wooley, PhD, SM [NRCM], RBP, CBSP is a professor at Wright State
University and a certified biosafety professional. Her research expertise
includes the molecular mechanisms of HIV mutation, recombination, and
pathogenesis, the use of viral vectors for gene transfer, and the biosafety of
viral vectors in laboratory and animal research. Dr. Wooley conducted
postdoctoral research with Nobel Laureate Howard Temin at the University of
Wisconsin. She earned her Ph.D. degree in Virology from Harvard and an honors
B.S. degree in Microbiology from The Pennsylvania State University.

### EX OFFICIO MEMBERS

### Department of Health & Human Services

Sally Phillips, RN, PhD

![Sally Phillips](/cpr/bsc/images/SallyPhillips.jpg)

******Sally Phillips, RN, PhD  
******

Dr. Sally Phillips has served as Deputy Assistant Secretary and Director of
the Office of Strategy, Policy, Planning, and Requirements for the Office of
the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response within the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services since October 2015. In this position,
Dr. Phillips is responsible for leading preparedness and response policy
development and analysis, strategic planning, and evaluation- to ensure that
sound policy and strategy are at the foundation of public health and medical
response operations - to enable ASPR and HHS to save lives, and protect the
Nation from 21st Century threats.

In August 2010, Dr. Phillips joined the Department of Homeland Security (DHS)
Office of Health Affairs (OHA) in Washington, DC as the Deputy Assistant
Secretary and Director for the Health Threats and Resilience Division. Later
in her tenure she served as Act­ing Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary
within DHS OHA.

In fall of 2001, Dr. Phillips joined the Agency for Healthcare Research and
Quality (AHRQ) as a Senior Nurse Scholar, where she managed a portfolio
ranging from bioterrorism pre­paredness to multidisciplinary safety education
and related healthcare workforce initiatives. In 2002 Dr. Phillips was
appointed Director of the Bioterrorism Pre­paredness Research Program (later
referred to as the Public Health Emergency Preparedness Research Program) and
she served in that capacity until July 2010.

Dr. Phillips was a Robert Wood Johnson Health Policy Fellow and Health Policy
Analyst for Senator Tom Harkin, for two years. She has also had a
distinguished academic career in the Schools of Nursing and Medicine at the
University of Colorado, Health Science Center. Dr. Phillips received a
bachelor's degree from Ohio State University, a master's degree from the
University of Colorado, and a doctorate from Case Western Reserve University.
Her primary area of clinical practice is the care of women, infants and
children, with a specialty in the care of high-risk neonates.

### LIAISON REPRESENTATIVES

Association of Public Health Laboratories: Christina Egan, PhD

![Christina Egan](/cpr/science/images/EganChristina.jpg)

**Christina Egan, PhD, CBSP, Association of Public Health Laboratories (APHL)
Chief, Biodefense Laboratory, Wadsworth Center, New York State Department of
Health Albany, NY  
**

The ability to rapidly detect and respond to the intentional release of
pathogens and toxins is vital in protecting the health and well-being of New
Yorkers. The intentional release of Bacillus anthracis through the US Postal
Service in 2001 highlighted the need for improved diagnostics in the field of
Biodefense. Research at the Biodefense Laboratory focuses on the development
of diagnostics for the detection of biothreat agents using platforms such as
real-time PCR, DNA sequencing, and microsphere immunoassay and nucleic acid
arrays.

Characterization and identification of biothreat agents is performed through
analysis of multiple and varied sample types such as clinical specimens, food,
water, powders, and other environmental samples. Often, these samples can be
difficult to test and specialized protocols are necessary in order to perform
nucleic acid testing. This work includes the development and validation of
assays that can detect agents such as C. botulinum neurotoxins, Staphylococcal
enterotoxins, Orthopoxviruses, Francisella tularensis, Brucella spp. Bacillus
anthracis, Ricin toxin, and Yersinia pestis in different samples types in a
multiplex format. Additional interests include the evaluation of biothreat
samples.

In addition to serving as the Director of the Biodefence Laboratory at
Wadsworth, Dr. Egan serves as Faculty Member and as the Director of Scientific
Education, at the Wadsworth School of Laboratory Sciences.

Association of Schools and Programs of Public Health: Laura Magaña, PhD

![LauraMagaña](/cpr/science/images/LauraMagana_headshot.jpg)

**Laura Maga ña, PHD President and Chief Executive Officer Association of
Schools and Programs of Public Health (ASPPH)**

In August 2017, Dr. Laura Magaña Valladares became President and CEO of the
Association of Schools and Programs of Public Health (ASPPH).

Prior to joining ASPPH, Dr. Magaña dedicated over 30 years to leading the
transformation and advancements of public and private universities in Mexico,
educational organizations in the United States, United Nations programs, and
non-governmental organizations in Central America and Europe. She was most
recently the academic dean of the  National Institute of Public Health, and
ASPPH-member, in Mexico. Her diverse portfolio features research, training,
and technological developments in national and foreign universities, with a
focus on learning environments and the use of technology in education.external
icon

Dr. Magaña is an active member of professional and scientific educational
committees around the globe, including the Public Health Institutes of the
World, World Federation of Public Health Associations, Association of Schools
of Public Health in Europe, Latin-American Global Health Association, National
System of Researchers, and the National Academy of Medical Education in
Mexico. Dr. Magaña also has served as the ASPPH representative to the Global
Forum on Innovation in Health Professional Education of the National Academies
of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. She also participates in editorial
boards, including Public Health Reviews and the Association of Schools of
Public Health in the European Region (ASPHER), the Chilean Journal of Public
Health, and the Journal in Eastern Europe.

Dr. Magaña holds a Bachelor of Arts in Special Education, Master of Science in
Educational Technology, and a PhD in Educational Administration.

Association of State and Territorial Health Officials: Parham Jaberi, MD, MPH

![Parham Jaberi](/cpr/bsc/images/ParhamJaberi.jpg)

**Parham Jaberi, MD, MPH, Virginia Department of Health (VDH) Chief Deputy
Commissioner for Public Health and Preparedness, Richmond, Virginia**

Parham Jaberi, MD, MPH, is a board-certified preventive medicine physician
with 10 years of experience as a public health official in Virginia and
Louisiana.

In his current role at VDH, Dr. Jaberi provides direct oversight to the
offices of Emergency Preparedness, Radiological Health, Environmental Health
Services, Drinking Water, Chief Medical Examiner, and Emergency Medical
Services.  Prior to his current role, Dr. Jaberi served as Louisiana's
Assistant State Health Officer and Assistant Secretary for Public Health and
in prior years has served as a local health director in both Virginia and
Louisiana.

Dr. Jaberi obtained his Bachelor's Degree from Johns Hopkins University, his
Medical Doctorate from the University of Maryland School of Medicine; and he
completed his Preventive Medicine Residency and Master of Public Health at
Tulane University.

Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists: Benjamin P. Chan, MD, MPH

![Benjamin Chan](/cpr/bsc/images/ChanBenjamin2018.jpg)

******Benjamin P. Chan, MD, MPH******

Benjamin Chan, MD, MPH has served as State Epidemiologist for the New
Hampshire Department of Health and Human Services since July 2014. He provides
medical and epidemiology support to the Division of Public Health Services
where he is intricately involved in public health emergency preparedness and
response, which has included responding to emerging infectious disease threats
such as Ebola and Zika, and to emerging environmental health concerns from
perfluoroalkyl substance (PFAS) drinking water contamination. He has also been
working closely with local, state, and national partners to prevent and
respond to emergent antibiotic resistant infections through strengthening
state and national surveillance and promoting antibiotic stewardship. He has
made it a priority to work towards closer collaboration and integration
between the fields of public health and clinical medicine.

Dr. Chan is board certified by the American Board of Internal Medicine (ABIM)
in the specialties of Internal Medicine and Infectious Disease, and by the
American Board of Preventive Medicine (ABPM) in Public Health and General
Preventive Medicine. He completed internal medicine residency and infectious
disease fellowship at Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center (DHMC). He received
his MD degree from the University of Vermont College of Medicine and his MPH
degree through the Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy & Clinical Practice,
with a focus on improving healthcare delivery systems. He maintains clinical
and academic professional appointments at DHMC and the Geisel School of
Medicine at Dartmouth.

National Association of County and City Health Officials: Michele Askenazi,
MPH

![Michele Askenazi](/cpr/bsc/images/askenazi_headshot.jpg)

******Michele Askenazi, MPH  
Tri-County Health Department  
Director of Emergency Preparedness, Response, and Communicable Disease
Surveillance******

Michele Askenazi has worked in Public Health for 20 years and has been at the
Tri-County Health Department (TCHD) for 12 years. Michele oversees the
Emergency Preparedness and Response, Syndromic Surveillance, Communicable
Disease and Workplace Safety and Security Programs at TCHD. Michele has served
in a lead role for response efforts including outbreaks, mass casualty
incidents, and natural disasters such as floods and fires, and established a
Public Health Incident Management Team (PHIMT) for TCHD in 2010. The PHIMT is
recognized as a NACCHO model practice, enhancing the agency's depth and skills
to provide management to all-hazards incidents, whether TCHD serves in a lead
or support role. Michele has been key to the development of the ESF #8 system
for the TCHD jurisdiction of Adams, Arapahoe and Douglas Counties, where TCHD
serves as the ESF #8 lead if activated by their partners in Emergency
Management. In addition to serving on the CDC Board of Scientific Counselors,
Michele also serves as the Chair for the NACCHO Preparedness Policy Advisory
Group.

Before coming to TCHD, Michele was an Epidemiologist for the Michigan
Department of Community Health, working in HIV/AIDS Surveillance. She then
served as an Epidemiologist in Chronic Disease and Injury Prevention and then
as a Research Analyst for the Bioterrorism Program at the Orange County Health
Care Agency in Orange County, California. She received her Bachelor's Degree
from the University of Michigan and her Master of Public Health from the
University of Texas Health Sciences Center.

Tribal Epidemiology Centers: Jamie Ritchey, PhD, MPH

![Dr. Jamie Ritchey](/cpr/bsc/images/lakeheadshot.jpg)

**Jamie Ritchey PhD, MPH**

Jamie Ritchey is a solution-oriented public health practice epidemiologist
with nearly 20 years of applied public health experience. Her key skills
include: public health revenue generation, leadership, program evaluation,
disease surveillance and epidemiologic analysis, report and publication
development, and public speaking.

Dr. Ritchey has been in her current role as the Inter Tribal Council of
Arizona, Inc. Tribal Epidemiology Center (ITCA TEC) Director for over five
years. In this role, her main focus is to enhance public health capacity in
Tribal communities in Arizona, Nevada, and Utah. The ITCA TEC currently
supports Tribal programs through grants from the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention, including the Tribal Public Health Infrastructure Project and
Good Health and Wellness in Indian Country, Indian Health Services TEC Core
funding and IHS Behavioral Health Division funding to support Tribal
Methamphetamine & Suicide prevention and Domestic violence prevention,
National Institutes of Health funding to support disease surveillance and
reporting activities, and a contract with National Indian Health Board for
Zika virus preparedness activities.

### DESIGNATED FEDERAL OFFICIAL

Kimberly Lochner, ScD

![Kimberly Lochner ScD](/cpr/bsc/images/KimberlyLochner.JPG)

**Deputy Associate Director for Science**

**Designated Federal Officer, OPHPR Board of Scientific Counselors**

**Kimberly Lochner, ScD**

Dr. Kimberly Lochner is Deputy Associate Director for Science (DADS) in the
Center for Preparedness Response (CPR) at the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC). She provides guidance for and oversight of CPR's scientific
integrity and quality and Board of Scientific Counselors' activities and is
the Designated Federal Official for CPR's Board of Scientific Counselors.
Prior to joining CPR, Dr. Lochner was a senior researcher in the Office of
Enterprise Data and Analytics at the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
(CMS) where she led a comprehensive research and data development program on
the health status of Medicare beneficiaries focused on chronic conditions,
including the epidemiology and implications for Medicare spending and clinical
care. She worked for CDC's National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS)
leading the Data Linkage Program, which links NCHS surveys to data collected
from U.S. vital statistics records, Medicare/Medicaid, and the Social Security
Administration. Before entering Federal service, she was a Program Officer
with the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) and an advisor to the RWJF
Health & Society Scholars Program. Dr. Lochner received her doctoral degree
from the Harvard School of Public Health with a concentration in social
epidemiology.

Page last reviewed: February 3, 2020, 01:05 PM

Content source: Center for Preparedness and Response

home Center for Preparedness and Response

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What We Doplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ready for Emergencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Public Health Preparedness and Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emergency Operations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State and Local Readiness (PHEP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Laboratory Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Safeguarding Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Poliovirus Containment 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Global Preparedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Vulnerable Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Why it Matters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Who We Areplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Leadership
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Organization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Divisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Emergency Preparedness Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prepare Your Healthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Personal Health Preparednessplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Personal Needs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prescriptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Paperwork
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Power Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Practical Skills
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Plan Aheadplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stay Healthy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stay Informed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stay In Contact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Create Communityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Care For Each Other
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Get Involved
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Emergency Operationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDCâs EOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How It Works
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emergency Management Fellowship
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stories and Blogs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Situation Awareness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State and Local Readiness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * U.S. National Authority for Containment of Poliovirus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Select Agents and Toxinsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Federal Select Agent Programplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * What is a Select Agent?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Regulation of Select Agents and Toxins
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Enforcement of Regulations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Import Permit Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stories and Blogs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports and Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Program Reviews and Progress Updatesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC 90-Day Internal Review
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Progress Towards Change
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Science and Public Health Practice plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Current Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prior Research 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Research Funding Opportunity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Board of Scientific Counselorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Member Roster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Member Profiles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Meeting Schedule
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Meeting Minutes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policy & Partnershipsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Successful Partnerships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stay Connectedplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Become a Partner
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Partner Tools and Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * NGA Webinars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communication Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Blog
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Social Media Graphics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Campaignsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Preparedness Monthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preparedness Month 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preparedness Month 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preparedness Month 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preparedness Month 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Safe and Well Selfie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ready Wrigley!plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Books
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zombie Preparednessplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zombie Graphic Novel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prep Your Health Chat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Resources & Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Trainingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Whole Community Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Meta-Leadership Summit for Preparedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Preparedness and Emergency Response Learning Centers

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-twitter-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-
fb-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-phm-24px.jpg)
![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-in-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-
pin-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-govd-24px.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM

