https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/eoc/EmergencyManagementFellowship.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/eoc/EmergencyManagementFellowship.htm    
                Description: Center for Preparedness and Response    
                Keywords: None    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Center for Preparedness and Response

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Public Health Emergency Management Fellowship

Minus

Related Pages

![CDC Public Health Emergency Management Fellowship](/cpr/eoc/images/EMF.jpg)

Established in 2013, CDC's Public Health Emergency Management (PHEM)
Fellowship is conducted twice year at CDC in Atlanta, Georgia. The fellowship
builds PHEM capacity among members of the international public health
community through standardized training, mentorship, and technical assistance.
It targets mid-career professionals who work in public health preparedness and
response in countries who have signed on to  International Health
RegulationsExternal.

During their four months in Atlanta, fellows receive specialized training in
public health emergency management functions and operations, participate in
site visits, take part in public health exercises and responses, and receive
guidance from federal, state, and local emergency management specialists.

Trained experts who know what to do are critical to building a functioning
EOC; more valuable than state-of-the art equipment or supplies is the
knowledge emergency management experts can bring to the table. When every
second counts, understanding how to coordinate an effective response can save
lives.

PHEM and Global Health Security

Monitoring and responding to public health events through an Emergency
Operations Center is a cornerstone of both the International Health
Regulations (IHR) and the Global Health Security Agenda (GHSA). These two
international agreements are key to the world's effort to better prevent,
detect, and respond to public health threats. Having an Emergency Operations
Center that can respond within two hours of an emergency is one of the stated
goals of the GHSA.

Our Program

The goals of the Public Health Emergency Management Fellowship Program are to:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Provide in-depth exposure to public health emergency management frameworks, functions, staff, and program elements.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Provide in-depth exposure to the functioning of a Public Health Emergency Operations Center (PHEOC).



By the end of the fellowship, Fellows will understand public health emergency
management principles and gain a working knowledge of the functioning of an
emergency operations center. Furthermore, they will be able to demonstrate the
following skills:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Collect, analyze, and disseminate critical public health information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Manage an emergency situation effectively
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Have an understanding of emergency operation centers operations, organizational structure, staffing, and schedules
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Interact with staff responsible for carrying out emergency management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Train relevant professional staff members in their home country

Our Fellows

Since the 2013 inaugural class, CDC has graduated 69 Emergency Management
Specialists from 28 different countries. Fellows come from diverse cultural
and career backgrounds. Fellows must be willing to commit to the four-month
program, demonstrate English proficiency, and achieve the necessary CDC
security clearance.

PHEM Fellows usually:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Hold a Master's degree, doctorate or equivalent in public health, epidemiology or a related field
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Have a level of responsibility within their Ministry of Health that reflects leadership of a public health emergency management function and requires coordination with other emergency management functions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Have a position, or are expected to have a position, that will support their training or influence others upon return to the home country



In 2017, CDC hosted 30 fellows that represented 17 countries. This was the
first time Fellows from Bangladesh, Democratic Republic of the Congo, and
Indonesia participated in the program. Fellows come from various positions
within Ministries of Health. Roles fellows have held prior to joining the
Fellowship include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Epidemiology/Surveillance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Emergency Preparedness and Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Medicine / Community Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Infectious Disease Preparedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Information Management and Technology

Post-Fellowship Experiences

Upon completion of PHEM Fellowship, Fellows are asked to apply their learning
to develop a personal toolkit: a series of papers, recommendations or projects
that can be shared with colleagues in their countries on their return.  Alumni
of PHEM Fellowship have participated in 13 exercises and 29 real-world public
health emergency responses, serving in a variety of roles, including response
incident manager, outbreak investigation team lead, operations coordinator,
and liaison officer.

Fellows facilitate the expansion of public health emergency management within
their countries and have returned to their home countries to assume key roles
in public health. Examples of roles fellows have taken on after their training
include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Director of the Public Health Emergency Center in the China CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Director of the Disaster Risk Management Unit in the Kenya Ministry of Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Strategic Health Operations Centre Officer-in-Charge in India's National Centre for Disease Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * EOC Manager in the Thailand Ministry of Public Health Department of Disease Control

Leading a Response

In late September 2017, the northeastern region of Louga in Senegal had 70
confirmed cases of dengue. The Ministry of Health activated the incident
management system (IMS) in its Public Health Emergency Operations Center on
October 31, 2017. An alumnus of the PHEM Fellowship served as the Incident
Manager.

Training Leaders

In Nigeria, an alumnus of the PHEM Fellowship piloted the delivery of CDCs
Public Health Emergency Operations Center Management and Operations course to
leaders with integral roles in public health emergency response. Over 45
personnel from national and state level Ministry of Health and partner
organizations received trained.

Page last reviewed: April 26, 2018

Content source: Center for Preparedness and Response

home Center for Preparedness and Response

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What We Doplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ready for Emergencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Public Health Preparedness and Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emergency Operations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State and Local Readiness (PHEP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Laboratory Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Safeguarding Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Poliovirus Containment 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Global Preparedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Vulnerable Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Why it Matters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Who We Areplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Leadership
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Organization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Divisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Emergency Preparedness Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prepare Your Healthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Personal Health Preparednessplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Personal Needs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prescriptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Paperwork
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Power Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Practical Skills
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Plan Aheadplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stay Healthy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stay Informed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stay In Contact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Create Communityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Care For Each Other
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Get Involved
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Emergency Operationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDCâs EOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How It Works
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emergency Management Fellowship
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stories and Blogs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Situation Awareness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State and Local Readiness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * U.S. National Authority for Containment of Poliovirus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Select Agents and Toxinsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Federal Select Agent Programplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * What is a Select Agent?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Regulation of Select Agents and Toxins
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Enforcement of Regulations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Import Permit Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stories and Blogs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports and Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Program Reviews and Progress Updatesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC 90-Day Internal Review
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Progress Towards Change
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Science and Public Health Practice plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Current Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prior Research 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Research Funding Opportunity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Board of Scientific Counselorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Member Roster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Member Profiles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Meeting Schedule
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Meeting Minutes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policy & Partnershipsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Successful Partnerships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stay Connectedplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Become a Partner
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Partner Tools and Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * NGA Webinars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communication Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Blog
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Social Media Graphics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Campaignsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Preparedness Monthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preparedness Month 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preparedness Month 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preparedness Month 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preparedness Month 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Safe and Well Selfie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ready Wrigley!plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Books
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zombie Preparednessplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zombie Graphic Novel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prep Your Health Chat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Resources & Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Trainingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Whole Community Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Meta-Leadership Summit for Preparedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Preparedness and Emergency Response Learning Centers

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-twitter-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-
fb-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-phm-24px.jpg)
![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-in-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-
pin-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-govd-24px.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM

