https://www.cdc.gov/cancer/skin/Link: https://www.cdc.gov/cancer/skin/    
                Description: Skin cancer is the most common cancer in the United States. To lower your risk, protect your skin from the sun and avoid indoor tanning.    
                Keywords: cancer,  CDC,  skin,  melanoma,  prevention, Cancer, Skin Cancer    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Skin Cancer

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

# Skin Cancer

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

![Photo of a woman on a beach wearing a hat and sunglasses taking a photo of
herself](/cancer/skin/images/sun-safe-selfie-1110.jpg)

Show Us Your #SunSafeSelfie!

Learn More

![Photo of a woman on a beach wearing a hat and sunglasses taking a photo of
herself](/cancer/skin/images/sun-safe-selfie-714.jpg)

Show Us Your #SunSafeSelfie!

Learn More

Basic Information

![Photo of a father putting sunscreen on his young
daughter](/cancer/skin/images/dad-daughter-sunscreen-300.jpg)

Learn what skin cancer is, what the symptoms and risk factors are, and how to
lower your risk.

Statistics

![Photo of a person looking at statistics about the United States on a digital
tablet](/cancer/prostate/images/usmap-tablet-300x200.jpg)

Skin cancer is the most common cancer in the U.S. The Data Visualizations Tool
provides detailed statistics.

Sun Safety

![Photo of a family under a large umbrella on the
beach](/cancer/skin/images/family-large-umbrella-300.jpg)

The sun can damage your skin in as little as 15 minutes. Use these tips to
protect yourself and your family.

Skin Cancer Made Prevention a Priority for Me

![Photo of skin cancer survivor Ginny and her
family](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2019/05/Ginny-and-fam.jpg)

"Even though I knew I had almost every risk factor for skin cancer, I fell
into the far too common trap of thinking that skin cancer wouldn't happen to
me," says Ginny.

Featured Resources

![Photo of a woman and her children wearing hats and long sleeved
shirts](/cancer/skin/images/sun-safety-families-160.jpg)

Protect your family and yourself from skin cancer. Stay sun-safe outdoors and
discourage tanning.

![Photo of an African-American man wearing a hat and
sunglasses](/cancer/skin/images/man-hat-sunglasses-160.jpg)

The new Skin Cancer Prevention Progress Report summarizes recent research and
developments.

![Photo of a shade structure for a school athletic
field](/cancer/skin/images/ny-success-160.jpg)

Read about innovative ways in which programs help prevent skin cancer in their
communities.

CDC works with partners to reduce illness and death caused by skin cancer.
Learn what CDC is doing.

Page last reviewed: August 15, 2019

Content source: Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention

ï»¿

home Skin Cancer

                    * Basic Informationplus icon
                      * What Is Skin Cancer?
                      * What Are the Risk Factors?
                      * What Are the Symptoms?
                      * What Can I Do to Reduce My Risk?
                      * What Screening Tests Are There?
                      * How Can I Protect My Children from the Sun?
                      * Are There Benefits to Spending Time Outdoors?
                    * Statisticsplus icon
                      * Behavior Ratesplus icon
                        * Sunburns
                        * Indoor Tanning
                        * Sun Protection
                        * Sun Safety Education
                    * Sun Safetyplus icon
                      * Tips for Men
                      * Tips for Families
                      * Tips for Schools
                      * Tips for Employers
                      * Tips for Parks and Recreation Staff
                    * #SunSafeSelfie
                    * Success Storiesplus icon
                      * A Community-Wide Approach to Reduce Sun Exposure
                      * A University Helps the Community Stay Sun-Safe
                      * Surveillance Data Guide Skin Cancer Prevention Efforts
                      * Keeping Student Athletes Sun-Safe On and Off the Field
                      * Sunscreen Access in âThe Sun Cityâ
                      * Shading Children from the Sunâs Harmful Rays
                      * Reducing Indoor Tanning on College Campuses
                      * Building a Culture of Sun Safety for Nevadaâs Youth
                      * Providing Education and Sunscreen Access in Georgia
                      * Building Shade Structures on Playgrounds and Sports Fields
                    * _The Surgeon Generalâs Call to Action to Prevent Skin Cancer_ plus icon
                      * Related Resources
                    * What CDC Is Doingplus icon
                      * Skin Cancer Prevention Progress Report
                      * Guidelines for School Programs to Prevent Skin Cancer
                    * Resources to Shareplus icon
                      * Videos
                      * Podcasts
                      * Shareable Graphics
                      * Print Materials

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

