https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/eoc.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/eoc.htm    
                Description: Center for Preparedness and Response    
                Keywords: preparedness,  response,  health,  threats,  toxins,  bioterrorism,  disasters,  emergency,  prepared, Public Health    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Center for Preparedness and Response

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# CDC Emergency Operations Center (EOC)

Minus

Related Pages

![EOC Header](/cpr/eoc/images/EOC-Header.jpg)

When CDC gets the call to assist in a public health emergency, the Emergency
Operations Center (EOC) is ready to respond.

The CDC Emergency Operations Center - a place where highly trained experts
monitor information, prepare for known (and unknown) public health events, and
gather in the event of an emergency to exchange information and make decisions
quickly.

The need for a dedicated EOC in the United States became clear in 2001. During
the World Trade Center and anthrax attacks, CDC responded to the emergency
using available conference rooms with limited equipment. With support from CDC
Foundation, CDC established its first dedicated EOC facility in 2003; the
current facility began operations in February 2006.

Today, the CDC EOC brings together teams of highly trained experts and state-
of-the-art technology to strengthen our nation's ability to detect and respond
to public health threats.

### How we decide when to activate

Even when there is no specific public health threat, the EOC has dedicated
staff monitoring information, helping to keep us safe 24/7. These same
individuals may be called in to support a response should one arise.

The EOC may be notified about potential public health threats through its
watch desk, which fields calls from the public, physicians, and state and
local authorities. Notification may also come via public health partner
briefings, field operations intelligence, or a worldwide declaration of a
Public Health Emergency of International Concern.

The EOC is operated by the Center for Preparedness and Response (CPR) Division
of Emergency Operations (DEO). When DEO first receives information about a
potentially widespread threat (like an increase in the incidence of a virus),
a team of subject matter experts within DEO and from across CDC gather to
determine whether the Incident Management System (IMS) needs to be activated.
The team's assessment is reported to the OPHPR director, who then consults
with the CDC director to provide recommendations for action.

CDC's The Incident management system (IMS) has been activated in the CDC EOC
more than 91% of the time in the last 7 years.

![CDC Public Health Response](/cpr/eoc/images/EOCtimelineTHUMB.jpg)

### During an Emergency

During public health emergencies, staff in the CDC EOC:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Deploys scientific experts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Coordinates delivery of supplies and equipment to the incident site
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Monitors response activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Provides resources to state and local public health departments

Since its inception in September 2001, the EOC has responded to more than 60
public health threats, including hurricanes, foodborne disease outbreaks,
Ebola, and Zika virus. In addition to emergencies, the IMS may be activated in
the EOC may for planned events (e.g., presidential inaugurations and Olympics
taking place in the U.S.) to monitor for incidents that may affect the
public's health. See a comprehensive list of public health responses supported
by the EOC since 2001.

### After an Emergency

After an event or an incident, CDC assesses what worked well, what could be
improved, and prepares after action reports and improvement plans. Included in
these reports are assessments of how well the response operations met
objectives, recommendations for correcting gaps or weaknesses, and plans for
improving response operations. CDC's Office of Public Health Preparedness and
Response manages the development of these reports.

Emergency response is a continuous process of planning, training, exercising,
and evaluation.



### Fast facts

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The CDC EOC is staffed 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The 24,000-square-foot facility seats up to 230 people at a time.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The IMS has been activated continuously since December 2011 and, for the first time in its history, was activated for four concurrent public health emergencies in February and March 2016.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Between September 2001 and March 2018 , CDC activated its IMS for over 60 responses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Approximately 4,000 CDC staff directly participated in the 2014 Ebola outbreak response, making it the largest response in CDC's history.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clinicians, state and local health agencies, and the general public report potential public health threats to CDC through the EOC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Joint Information Center in the EOC coordinates risk communication strategy to develop messages that are timely, accurate, consistent and actionable.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * On October 7, 2013, the CDC became the first federal agency and only public health agency to earn full accreditation of its Emergency Management Program through EMAP. In 2018, EMAP Assessors will conduct an onsite assessment for reaccreditation of the program's policies and procedures, management, operations, and support services.

Page last reviewed: April 10, 2019, 02:40 PM

Content source: Center for Preparedness and Response

home Center for Preparedness and Response

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What We Doplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ready for Emergencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Public Health Preparedness and Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emergency Operations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State and Local Readiness (PHEP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Laboratory Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Safeguarding Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Poliovirus Containment 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Global Preparedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Vulnerable Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Why it Matters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Who We Areplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Leadership
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Organization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Divisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Emergency Preparedness Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prepare Your Healthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Personal Health Preparednessplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Personal Needs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prescriptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Paperwork
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Power Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Practical Skills
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Plan Aheadplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stay Healthy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stay Informed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stay In Contact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Create Communityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Care For Each Other
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Get Involved
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Emergency Operationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDCâs EOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How It Works
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emergency Management Fellowship
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stories and Blogs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Situation Awareness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State and Local Readiness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * U.S. National Authority for Containment of Poliovirus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Select Agents and Toxinsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Federal Select Agent Programplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * What is a Select Agent?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Regulation of Select Agents and Toxins
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Enforcement of Regulations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Import Permit Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stories and Blogs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports and Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Program Reviews and Progress Updatesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC 90-Day Internal Review
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Progress Towards Change
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Science and Public Health Practice plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Current Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prior Research 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Research Funding Opportunity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Board of Scientific Counselorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Member Roster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Member Profiles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Meeting Schedule
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Meeting Minutes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policy & Partnershipsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Successful Partnerships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stay Connectedplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Become a Partner
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Partner Tools and Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * NGA Webinars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communication Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Blog
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Social Media Graphics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Campaignsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Preparedness Monthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preparedness Month 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preparedness Month 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preparedness Month 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preparedness Month 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Safe and Well Selfie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ready Wrigley!plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Books
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zombie Preparednessplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zombie Graphic Novel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prep Your Health Chat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Resources & Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Trainingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Whole Community Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Meta-Leadership Summit for Preparedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Preparedness and Emergency Response Learning Centers

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-twitter-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-
fb-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-phm-24px.jpg)
![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-in-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-
pin-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-govd-24px.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM

