https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/eoc/cdcsupport.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/eoc/cdcsupport.htm    
                Description: Center for Preparedness and Response    
                Keywords: preparedness, response, health, threats, toxins, bioterrorism, disasters, emergency, prepared    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Center for Preparedness and Response

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# CDC Support for Emergency Operations Centers

Minus

Related Pages

### EOCs Around the World

CDC's expertise in setting up and maintaining an Emergency Operations Center
(EOC) has proven invaluable as we all work to meet the goals of the Global
Health Security Agenda (GHSA). To date, over 50 countries have joined in
partnership through GHSA to improve the world's ability to prevent, detect,
and respond to public health threats. Having an EOC that can activate and
respond within two hours of a public health emergency is one of GHSA's
critical targets.

As part of our commitment to the world's health, we share what we've learned
from our experiences. One way we do this is through the Public Health
Emergency Management  Fellowship. This program invites public health experts
from all over the world for a four-month training course in which they are
taught the necessary skills to create or improve EOCs in their own countries.

We also send emergency management experts to countries across the globe, where
they help identify resources and train responders locally.

### EOCs in the United States

In the U.S., CDC funds state and local jurisdictions through its Public Health
Emergency Preparedness (PHEP) grant program. The PHEP grants help support
emergency preparedness in 62 state, local and territorial jurisdiction. Each
PHEP-funded area has an Emergency Operations Center and relies on the Incident
Command Structure.

All responses to emergencies begin at the local level; state and local
governments have primary responsibility for incident response. If an event or
incident exceeds their capabilities, federal assistance can be provided in
accordance with the National Response Framework and the Stafford Act.

Page last reviewed: March 28, 2017

Content source: Center for Preparedness and Response

home Center for Preparedness and Response

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What We Doplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ready for Emergencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Public Health Preparedness and Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emergency Operations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State and Local Readiness (PHEP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Laboratory Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Safeguarding Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Poliovirus Containment 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Global Preparedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Vulnerable Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Why it Matters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Who We Areplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Leadership
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Organization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Divisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Emergency Preparedness Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prepare Your Healthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Personal Health Preparednessplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Personal Needs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prescriptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Paperwork
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Power Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Practical Skills
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Plan Aheadplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stay Healthy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stay Informed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stay In Contact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Create Communityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Care For Each Other
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Get Involved
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Emergency Operationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDCâs EOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How It Works
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emergency Management Fellowship
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stories and Blogs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Situation Awareness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State and Local Readiness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * U.S. National Authority for Containment of Poliovirus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Select Agents and Toxinsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Federal Select Agent Programplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * What is a Select Agent?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Regulation of Select Agents and Toxins
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Enforcement of Regulations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Import Permit Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stories and Blogs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports and Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Program Reviews and Progress Updatesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC 90-Day Internal Review
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Progress Towards Change
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Science and Public Health Practice plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Current Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prior Research 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Research Funding Opportunity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Board of Scientific Counselorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Member Roster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Member Profiles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Meeting Schedule
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Meeting Minutes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policy & Partnershipsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Successful Partnerships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stay Connectedplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Become a Partner
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Partner Tools and Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * NGA Webinars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communication Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Blog
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Social Media Graphics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Campaignsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Preparedness Monthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preparedness Month 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preparedness Month 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preparedness Month 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preparedness Month 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Safe and Well Selfie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ready Wrigley!plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Books
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zombie Preparednessplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zombie Graphic Novel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prep Your Health Chat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Resources & Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Trainingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Whole Community Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Meta-Leadership Summit for Preparedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Preparedness and Emergency Response Learning Centers

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-twitter-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-
fb-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-phm-24px.jpg)
![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-in-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-
pin-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-govd-24px.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM

