https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/research/current.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/research/current.htm    
                Description: Centers for Preparedness and Response    
                Keywords: preparedness, response, health, threats, toxins, bioterrorism, disasters, emergency, prepared    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Center for Preparedness and Response

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Current Research

Minus

Related Pages

![](/cpr/research/00_images/current_research_header.jpg)

The Center for Preparedness Response supports both individual research
projects and research programs. A research project has a defined start and end
point with specific objectives to meet in order to be complete. A program, on
the other hand, establishes a group of related projects that are managed in a
coordinated way, typically over a longer period of time, to achieve
objectives.

#### Public Health Emergency Preparedness and Response Applied Research
(PHEPRAR) Program

This program solicits contract proposals on innovative research based upon
thematic topics generated and prioritized by state and local preparedness
officials, CDC subject matter experts and preparedness leadership. In
September 2017, seven innovative research projects were selected and awarded
contracts for three-year project periods.

Information Management & Risk Communication

#### Effective Communication in Public Health Emergencies - Developing
Community-Centered Tools for People with Special Health Care Needs (Drexel
University)

Individuals with access and mobility challenges, chronic illness, intellectual
and developmental disabilities, and other communication difficulties require
targeted messages before, during, and after disasters to ensure that they
fully appreciate the risks to their health and safety and can take measures to
avoid harm. Investigators and collaborators will study the disaster
communication needs of three understudied populations with unique preparedness
and communication challenges. Each of these populations is at-risk for severe
outcomes in the wake of disasters.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. Children with special health care needs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2. Individuals of all ages with autism spectrum disorders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3. Adults with the degenerative neuromuscular disease Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS).

The study aims to:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Determine how selected at-risk communities prefer to receive information in emergencies and disaster, including their preferred channels, formats, and information sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Examine whether medical practices and social service organizations that serve these communities have the capacity for disaster communications, and how current electronic medical records and other technologies support urgent risk communication to at-risk patients or clients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Explore to what extent social media can be a useful channel to share information with at-risk communities during a public health emergency

#### Persuasive Communication about Risks from and Responses to Zika  
(Johns Hopkins School of Public Health Center for Health Security)

This project will study the lessons learned from the Zika virus response in
order to develop evidence-informed recommendations and provide strategic
input, potential language, and communication approaches for senior health
officials at the state and federal level to be used in future public health
emergencies. Public health communication practices must be strengthened to
improve public understanding, acceptance, and response during future
infectious disease outbreaks. This can be achieved through improved insights
into current communication efforts and messages, public knowledge, and public
values relevant to the outbreak.

The study aims to:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * Identify the critical and innovative Zika communication practices currently in use by federal, state and local public health departments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Examine what messages the news media provide about infectious disease risks and responses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Investigate public views on Zika controversies that may apply to future emergency response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Analyze how public values play into acceptance of and preferences about response activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Study what messages resonate most effectively with the American public
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Draw lessons from the Zika outbreak that can improve future emergency response

Incident Management

#### Recognizing Best Practices in Training and Exercises for Public Health
Response Leadership in Incident Management and Public Health Communication
(CNA Corporation)

This project will promote effective incident management and public health
communication by highlighting best practices in training and exercises.

The study aims to:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Identify existing evidence on the effectiveness of current training and exercise methods for developing public health response leadership competencies in incident management and public health communication
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Identify best practices from other fields that can be adapted for rapidly and effectively training personnel in domains outside of their usual roles to incident management at the response leadership level
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Identify the necessary improvements, challenges to implementations, and potential resolutions for training and exercise delivery for enhancing public health response leadership competences in applying incident management principles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Identify the incident management functions in emergency response that should be prioritized for training and exercises among incident managers and response leaders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Identify novel methods, tools, and/or mechanisms to develop and deliver training and exercise programs for enhancing public health response leadership competencies in applying incident management principles

Community/Systems Resilience and Cross-Cutting Issues

#### Leveraging the Emerging Field of Disaster Citizen Science to Enhance
Community Resilience and Improve Disaster Response (RAND Corporation)

The project will characterize the rapidly emerging field of disaster citizen
science, develop a model for how citizen science may promote resilience and
engagement in preparedness activities, and provide guidance to local health
departments and community groups for working collaboratively on disaster
citizen science initiatives.

The study aims to:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               * Explore the promise of disaster citizen science for increasing community resilience, enhancing participation in preparedness and response activities, and improving preparedness efforts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Develop educational and instructional tools for communities and health departments to navigate and facilitate the evolution of disaster citizen science into mechanisms for collaboration

#### Participatory Mapping to Identify and Support At-Risk Populations in
Emergency Preparedness

(Harvard University)

The project will create a participatory mapping process of preparedness assets
that can be used by communities, in partnership with local governments, to
address the needs of vulnerable populations. Major deliverables will include a
list of strategies for addressing population needs in preparation and response
to an emergency, an App (iOS and Android) for mapping community assets, and a
tabletop exercise to test the impact of the participatory mapping results on
the decision-making process of local agencies engaged in preparedness planning
efforts.

The study aims to:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               * Generate a list of strategies to address the needs of vulnerable populations by engaging community leaders in sharing their "local knowledge in preparedness"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Create a participatory mapping process to map assets in the communities that can be used to address the needs of vulnerable populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Evaluate whether the availability of "local knowledge in preparedness" obtained from the applied participatory mapping process improves the quality of the decision-making process of public health officials responding to an emergency

#### Structuring Industry-Tuned Public-Private Partnerships and Economic
Incentives for U.S. Health Emergency Preparedness and Response
(PricewaterhouseCoopers LLC)

The project centers around a fundamental question: How can emerging concepts
in innovative public-private partnerships and incentive models be leveraged to
encourage private sector engagement and partnership in public health
preparedness and response-related activities, including systems integration
between public health and commercial healthcare entities? A key deliverable of
this project will be an evidence based "playbook" detailing partnership
incentives and strategies that are most likely to be effective for building
and sustaining partnerships.

The study aims to:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               * Develop a risk-sharing framework to provide actionable incentive program recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Identify key gaps by leveraging secondary research and data collection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Identify key stakeholders to prioritize the mission areas and industry segments of interest
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Conduct qualitative and quantitative analysis to test specific hypotheses of findings

#### Determining Risks and Defining, Locating, and Reaching At-Risk
Populations: A Research-based Risk Assessment and Mapping Tool (Los Angeles
County Department of Public Health)

This project will conduct participatory research to develop a comprehensive
methodology--and practical, software-based tool(s)--to empower local, state
and national health agencies to identify, analyze, and depict health risks at
the community level and enable the development of improved emergency plans,
emergency response objectives and response capabilities that improve health
outcomes and reduce health disparities in public health emergencies.

The study aims to:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               * Determine how health and medical risk varies by hazard and geography
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Determine hazard specific impacts to vulnerable populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Develop a formula and methodology for assessing community based impact of 36 specific hazards on Public Health, Healthcare and Mental Health services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Develop a web-based Risk Assessment, Mapping and Planning (RAMP) Tool for assessing risk and developing emergency health and medical plans for jurisdictions in the United States

## Other Applied Research Projects

#### Composite of Post-Event Well-being (COPEWELL): A Dynamic Model of
Community Functioning and Resilience

The COPEWELL model provides a framework for understanding community resilience
and predicting post-event functioning following disasters and other adverse
health events. The model is a conceptual and computational tool that can be
used in real word contexts to identify gaps in health security preparedness,
identify resilience risk areas, inform mitigation strategies, and design and
evaluate interventions that enhance resilience. The three-year 2017 contract
to the Johns Hopkins University School of Public Health extends research that
CPR has supported since 2012. The current phase will build on lessons learned
and evaluation findings obtained in earlier phases to continue evaluation,
develop a production environment, and develop and roll out a self-assessment
rubric tool.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               * **CDC Public Health Matters Blog:** Predicting Community Resilience and Recovery After a Disaster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **Johns Hopkins School of Public Health Center for Health Security:** The COPEWELL ModelExternal

#### Evidence Based Practices for Public Health Emergency Preparedness and
Response: Assessment & Recommendations for the Field

In September 2017, a three-year research contract was awarded to the National
Academies of Science, Engineering, and Medicine (NASEM) to conduct a
comprehensive review and grading of existing evidence for public health
emergency preparedness and response practices generated since September 11,
2001. NASEM will use published literature and available reports, public input
and information gathering sessions, and original analysis to determine which
of the Public Health Preparedness capabilities  are critical to prioritize for
inclusion in this systematic review. Topics that are important across
capabilities but not sufficiently represented within the current set of PHP
capabilities may also be included in the review. This study will focus on
practices applicable to state and local public health preparedness and
response programs and operations.

Page last reviewed: November 23, 2018, 07:35 AM

Content source: Center for Preparedness and Response

home Center for Preparedness and Response

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What We Doplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ready for Emergencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Public Health Preparedness and Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emergency Operations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State and Local Readiness (PHEP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Laboratory Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Safeguarding Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Poliovirus Containment 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Global Preparedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Vulnerable Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Why it Matters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Who We Areplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Leadership
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Organization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Divisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Emergency Preparedness Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prepare Your Healthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Personal Health Preparednessplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Personal Needs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prescriptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Paperwork
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Power Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Practical Skills
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Plan Aheadplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stay Healthy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stay Informed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stay In Contact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Create Communityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Care For Each Other
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Get Involved
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Emergency Operationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDCâs EOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How It Works
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emergency Management Fellowship
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stories and Blogs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Situation Awareness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State and Local Readiness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * U.S. National Authority for Containment of Poliovirus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Select Agents and Toxinsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Federal Select Agent Programplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * What is a Select Agent?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Regulation of Select Agents and Toxins
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Enforcement of Regulations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Import Permit Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stories and Blogs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports and Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Program Reviews and Progress Updatesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC 90-Day Internal Review
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Progress Towards Change
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Science and Public Health Practice plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Current Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prior Research 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Research Funding Opportunity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Board of Scientific Counselorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Member Roster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Member Profiles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Meeting Schedule
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Meeting Minutes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policy & Partnershipsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Successful Partnerships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stay Connectedplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Become a Partner
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Partner Tools and Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * NGA Webinars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communication Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Blog
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Social Media Graphics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Campaignsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Preparedness Monthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preparedness Month 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preparedness Month 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preparedness Month 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preparedness Month 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Safe and Well Selfie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ready Wrigley!plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Books
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zombie Preparednessplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zombie Graphic Novel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prep Your Health Chat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Resources & Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Trainingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Whole Community Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Meta-Leadership Summit for Preparedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Preparedness and Emergency Response Learning Centers

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-twitter-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-
fb-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-phm-24px.jpg)
![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-in-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-
pin-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-govd-24px.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM

