https://www.cdc.gov/media/subtopic/questions.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/media/subtopic/questions.htm    
                Description: Answers to questions about copyright, CDC logo, advertising space, CDC partnerships, job listings    
                Keywords: CDC News, CDC Media, CDC Newsroom, CDC Press, Health News, CDC Online Newsroom, Center for Disease Control News, Centers for Disease Control News, medical news, medical information, medical recommendations, disease information, outbreak investigation, investigations, prevalence, CDC Press Conference, CDC report, health PSAs, health campaigns, health podcasts, public affairs, reporters, media center, control and prevention, top health stories, top medical stories, health promotion, healthcare news, medical research news, public health news, government news, CDC Media Kit, CDC Fact Sheet, CDC Fact Sheets, CDC Images, Public Health News, Public Health Press, CDC, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, CDC Headquarters, CDC Atlanta, CDC Washington, National Center of Health Marketing, MMWR, PHIL, NCHM, Communications, Health Communications, HHS TV, CDC Info, CDC Information, Coordinating Center for Environmental Heatlh and Injury Prevention, CCEHIP, Environmental Health, Injury Prevention, Coordinating Center for Health Information and Service, CCHIS, Health Information, Health Service, Coordinating Center for Health Promotion, CoCHP, Health Promotion, Coordinating Center for Infectious Diseases, CCID, Infectious Diseases, Coordinating Office for Global Health, COGH, Global Health, Coordinating Office for Terrorism Preparedness and Emergency Response, COTPER, COPTER, Terrorism Preparedness, Emergency Response, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, NIOSH, Occupational Safety, Occupational Health, National Center for Environmental Health, NCEH, Agency for Toxic Substances, Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry, ATSDR, National Center for Preparedness Detection and Control of Infectious Diseases, NCPDCID, National Center for Injury Prevention and Control, NCIPC, National Center for Health Statistics, NCHS, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, NCCDPHP, National Center for Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities, NCBDDD, Epidemic Intelligence Service, EIS, Office on Smoking and Health, OSH, National Center for Zoonotic Vector borne and Enteric Diseases, NCZVED, Infectious Disease News, Foodborne disease news, Foodborne illness news, CDC Director, Office of CDC Director, CDC Buildings, CDC Facilities, CDC Budget, National Center for HIV/AIDS, National Center for HIV/AIDS Viral Hepatitis STD TB Prevention, NCHHSTP, STD Prevention News, HIV Prevention News, AIDS Prevention News, WomenÃ¢â¬â¢s Health News, Minority Health News, Dr. Julie Gerberding, Julie Gerberding, Gerberding, reports and recommendations, surveillance summary, ACIP recommendations, vaccine recommendations, general health news, important health news, government health news, vaccines and autism, vaccines linked to autism    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

CDC Newsroom

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Frequently Asked Questions

Minus

Related Pages

## Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * I have a media request outside business hours.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Why is it necessary to go through a press officer when I want to talk with a CDC expert?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Where can I get images for my story or publication?

## Digital Rights

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Are CDC materials on the web copyrighted?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Can I use the CDC logo in my publication?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * How can I obtain CDC PSAs and/or B-roll to use for my production?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * I would like CDC to link to my website. What is your policy on linking to other websites?

## Contact Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * I am not a reporter, and I would like to speak with someone about a disease or health issue. What number should I call?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * How do I get contact information for a specific person at CDC?

## Availability

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Are CDC facilities open to the public?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * How can my organization get someone from CDC to speak at our event?

## Business

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * My organization would like to create a partnership with CDC. Whom should I contact?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * How do I sell advertising space or donate PSA space to CDC?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * My company's goods and services may benefit CDC. Whom should I contact about a potential business relationship?

## Opportunities

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * How can my organization apply for a grant or funding from CDC?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Where can I find CDC job listings and information on careers?

* * *

## Media

**I have a media request outside business hours. What should I do?**

For urgent media requests outside of our normal business hours (9:00 a.m. to
6:00 p.m. Monday - Friday, excluding federal holidays), call 770-488-7100 for
instructions. An on-call press officer will be able to assist you. For non-
urgent requests, e-mail media@cdc.gov, and we will respond on the next
business day.

**Why is it necessary to go through a press officer when I want to talk with a
CDC expert?**

Press officers are here to make sure your questions get answered by the best
spokesperson for your story, within your deadline. CDC experts are working
scientists and may not be available for interviews at all times. A press
officer can help you find the best expert or spokesperson to answer your
questions.

**Where can I get images for my story or publication?**

The Newsroom Image Library contains commonly asked-for photos and images.
CDC's Public Health Image Library (PHIL) contains many more high-resolution
pictures, graphs, and illustrations. Most of these images are in the public
domain.

Back to Top

* * *

## Digital Rights

**Are CDC materials on the web copyrighted?**

CDC materials available on the web site are in the public domain (free of
copyright restrictions) unless otherwise noted. The CDC logo is NOT in the
public domain and may not be used without a trademark licensing agreement.

**Can I use the CDC logo in my publication?**

The CDC logo is NOT in the public domain. It is a trademarked image and may
not be used by non-CDC parties without a trademark licensing agreement. If you
are a partner and would like to enter into a trademark agreement with CDC,
please contact the Office of Technology and Innovation via e-mail at
tto@cdc.gov.

**How can I obtain B-roll to use for my production?**

CDC b-roll is in the public domain. Permission is not required for use of
public domain items. However, we do ask that you cite CDC as the source.

**I would like CDC to link to my website. What is your policy on linking to
other websites?**

CDC does not engage in reciprocal linking, and typically only links to other
government websites and websites created by CDC's partners. CDC cannot endorse
nor guarantee in any way the external organizations, services, advice, or
products included in non-governmental or non-partner website links. However,
the CDC website is a public domain website, which means you may link to us at
no cost and without special permission. For more information on CDC's linking
policy, click here.

Back to Top

* * *

## Contact Information

**I am not a reporter, but I would like to speak with someone about a disease
or health issue. What number should I call?**

Call CDC's national contact center, 1-800-CDC-INFO (1-800-232-4636). Or, visit
the Contact CDC page for additional information.

**How do I get contact information for a specific person at CDC?**

Call Directory Services at (404) 639-3311.

Back to Top

* * *

## Availability

**Are CDC facilities open to the public?**

CDC's David J. Sencer Museum is open to the public.

**How can my organization get someone from CDC to speak at our event?**

Make a request through the CDC Speakers Bureau  by visiting the website to
complete the Speaker Request Form.

Back to Top

* * *

## Business

**My organization would like to create a partnership with CDC. Whom should I
contact?**

For information on CDC Partnerships, visit http://www.cdc.gov/Partners.

**How do I sell advertising space or donate public service announcement space
to CDC?**

CDC does not regularly purchase advertising space. However, if you have space
to donate for a public service announcement, please contact media relations at
(404) 639-3286.

**My company 's communication products and services may benefit CDC. Whom
should I contact about a potential business relationship?**

CDC general funding opportunities are listed
https://www.cdc.gov/funding/resources/index.html. You can register with
Federal Business Opportunities at https://www.fbo.gov/external icon to find
out about federal contract work from all agencies.

In addition, CDC general funding opportunities are listed on the CDC
Procurement and Grants Office webpage, www.cdc.gov/about/business/funding.htm.
This would be a way to learn about CDC program requests for contracts. Lastly,
you can register with Federal Business Opportunities at
www.fedbizopps.govexternal icon to find out about federal contract work from
all agencies.

Back to Top

* * *

## Opportunities

**How can my organization apply for a grant or funding from CDC?**

Information on CDC funding opportunities is available at
https://www.cdc.gov/funding/resources/index.html

**Where can I find CDC job listings and information on careers?**

For federal job listings and information go to www.usajobs.govexternal icon.
General information about CDC employment is available on our website at
www.cdc.gov/employment.

Back to Top

Page last reviewed: October 17, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Newsroom Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Press Materialsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Newsroom Releasesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2020 News Releases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2019 News Releases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2018 News Releases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Historical News Releases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Digital Press Kit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Journal Summariesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MMWR Summaries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * EID Summaries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * PCD Summaries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Digital Mediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC B-Roll
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Image Library
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Press Briefing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC Spokespersonplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Michael J. Beach, PhD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Michael Bell, MD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * John T. Brooks, MD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Inger K. Damon, MD, PhD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Debra E. Houry, MD, MPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Daniel B. Jernigan, MD, MPH (CAPT, USPHS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jennifer McQuiston, DVM, MS (CAPT, USPHS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Eric Pevzner, PhD, MPH (CAPT, USPHS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stephen Redd, MD (RADM, USPHS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Arjun Srinivasan, MD (CAPT, USPHS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Contact Media Relationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Frequently Asked Questions

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit



Connect with CDC Media

rss  Subscribe to RSS Feeds

govd  Subscribe to email

syndication  Syndicate on Your Site

CDC Quick Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Freedom of Information Act Office
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Public Health Image Library (PHIL)

![CDC 24/7 – Saving Lives. Protecting People. Saving Money Through Prevention.
Learn More About How CDC Works For
You…](https://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/24-7/24-7_i150x120.gif)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM

