https://www.cdc.gov/HAI/organisms/staph.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/HAI/organisms/staph.html    
                Description: None    
                Keywords: healthcare-associated infection,  health care associated infections,  hospital acquired infections,  HAIs,  health care acquired infections,  infection prevention,  hygiene,  healthcare,  hospital related infection,  BSI,  UTI,  surgical site infection,  organisms, Healthcare Associated Infections [HAIs]    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Healthcare-associated Infections

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

# _Staphylococcus aureus_ in Healthcare Settings

Minus

Related Pages

### General Information about _Staphylococcus aureus_  

![Staphylococcus aureus](/hai/images/staph.jpg)

Staphylococcus aureus

_Staphylococcus aureus_ [staf I lō-kok is aw ree us] (staph), is a type of
germ that about 30% of people carry in their noses. Most of the time, staph
does not cause any harm; however, sometimes staph causes infections. In
healthcare settings, these staph infections can be serious or fatal,
including:

                    * Bacteremia or sepsis when bacteria spread to the bloodstream.
                    * Pneumonia, which most often affects people with underlying lung disease including those on mechanical ventilators.
                    * Endocarditis (infection of the heart valves), which can lead to heart failure or stroke.
                    * Osteomyelitis (bone infection), which can be caused by staph bacteria traveling in the bloodstream or put there by direct contact such as following trauma (puncture wound of foot or intravenous (IV) drug abuse).

Staph infections are caused by several different types of staph germs,
including:

                    * methicillin-resistant _Staphylococcus aureus_ (MRSA)
                    * methicillin-susceptible _Staphylococcus aureus_ (MSSA)
                    * vancomycin-intermediate _Staphylococcus aureus_ (VISA)
                    * vancomycin-resistant _Staphylococcus aureus_ (VRSA)

Although MRSA is often better known, any staph infection can be dangerous even
if it is not resistant to antibiotics.

### Populations at risk for _Staphylococcus aureus_ infection

Anyone can develop a staph infection, although certain groups of people are at
greater risk, including people with chronic conditions such as diabetes,
cancer, vascular disease, eczema, lung disease, and people who inject drugs.
In healthcare facilities, the risk of more serious staph infection is higher
because many patients have weakened immune systems or have undergone
procedures. In healthcare, the risk of more serious staph infection is higher
for patients in intensive care units (ICUs), patients who have undergone
certain types of surgeries and patients with medical devices inserted in their
bodies.

![What puts people at risk for serious staph infections? In Communities:
Uncovered or draining wounds, especially in high-contact sports or crowded
living. Sharing personal items such as towels or razors. Recent stays in a
healthcare facility. Injection drug use, like opioids. In Hospitals: Hospital
stays or surgery \(during and shortly after\). Exposure to patients carrying
or infected with staph. Medical devices in the body, like intravenous lines
\(IVs\). On Other Healthcare Facilities: Outpatient surgery and procedures,
like dialysis. Nursing home stays. Medical devices in the body, like
IVs.](/hai/images/outbreaks/infographic-staph-infections-large.jpg)

Top of Page

Page last reviewed: January 17, 2011

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Healthcare
Quality Promotion (DHQP)

home Healthcare-associated Infections (HAI)

                    * HAI Dataplus icon
                      * Data Portalplus icon
                        * Current HAI Progress Report
                        * Progress Report FAQs
                        * Antibiotic Resistance & Patient Safety Portal
                        * Patient Safety Atlas
                      * Data Archiveplus icon
                        * 2017 HAI Progress Report
                        * 2016 HAI Progress Report
                        * Data Summary: Assessing Progress 2006-2016
                        * 2015 HAI Data Report
                        * 2015 SIRs Using Historical Baselines
                        * 2014 HAI Progress Report
                        * Technical Appendix for _Stop Spread of Antibiotic Resistance_
                    * Types of Infectionsplus icon
                      * Central Line-associated Bloodstream Infectionsplus icon
                        * Resources for Patients & Providers
                        * FAQs about Catheters
                      * Surgical Site Infectionplus icon
                        * FAQs about SSIs
                      * Catheter-associated Urinary Tract Infectionplus icon
                        * FAQs about CAUTI
                      * Ventilator-associated Pneumoniaplus icon
                        * FAQs about VAP
                    * Diseases and Organismsplus icon
                      * _Acinetobacter_
                      * _Burkholderia cepacia_
                      * _Clostridioides difficile_
                      * _Clostridium Sordellii_
                      * Carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae (CRE)plus icon
                        * Patients
                        * Clinicians
                        * Healthcare Facilities
                        * Public Health Departments
                        * CRE Technical Information
                        * Tracking CRE in the United States
                      * ESBL-producing Enterobacteriaceae
                      * Gram-negative Bacteria
                      * Hepatitis
                      * HIVplus icon
                        * Occupationally Acquired HIV/AIDS in Healthcare Personnel
                      * _Klebsiella_
                      * MRSA
                      * Nontuberculous Mycobacteria (NTM)plus icon
                        * Clinicians
                        * Healthcare Facilities
                        * Health Departments
                        * _Mycobacterium abscessus_
                      * Norovirus
                      * _Pseudomonas aeruginosa_ plus icon
                        * Tracking Carbapenem-Resistant _Pseudomonas aeruginosa_
                      * _Staphylococcus aureus_
                      * Tuberculosis
                      * VISA / VRSA
                      * Vancomycin-resistant Enterococci (VRE) in Healthcare Settings
                    * Preventing HAIsplus icon
                      * Staph BSI Prevention Strategies
                      * CDI Prevention Strategies
                      * Urine Culture Stewardshipplus icon
                        * Patients with Indwelling Urinary Catheterplus icon
                          * Survey
                          * Structure
                          * Strategize
                          * Sustain
                        * Patients without Indwelling Urinary Catheter 
                      * Targeted Assessment for Prevention (TAP)plus icon
                        * TAP CAUTI Implementation Guide
                        * TAP CDI Implementation Guide
                        * TAP CLABSI Implementation Guide
                        * Infection Prevention Champions
                      * Prevention Toolkitsplus icon
                        * Options for Evaluating Environmental Cleaning
                        * Appendices to the Conceptual Program Model for Environmental Evaluation
                      * Basic Infection Control and Prevention Plan for Outpatient Oncology Settingsplus icon
                        * Appendices
                      * Outpatient Care Guide
                      * Tools for Protecting Healthcare Personnelplus icon
                        * PPE Training
                      * Infection Control Assessment Tools
                      * Healthcare Environmental Infection Preventionplus icon
                        * Reduce Risk from Water
                        * Environmental Cleaning in Resource-Limited Settings
                    * Containment Strategyplus icon
                      * What Can Be Done
                      * Guidelines
                      * Case Studies
                      * PPE in Nursing Homesplus icon
                        * Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
                    * State-based HAI Prevention Activitiesplus icon
                      * Success Stories
                      * State HAI Plans
                      * States with HAI Reporting Mandates
                      * HAI/AR Accreditation Crosswalkplus icon
                        * Acronyms
                        * Domain 1: Assess
                        * Domain 2: Investigate
                        * Domain 3: Inform and Educate
                        * Domain 4: Community Engagement
                        * Domain 5: Policies and Plans
                        * Domain 6: Public Health Laws
                        * Domain 7: Access to Care
                        * Domain 8: Workforce
                        * Domain 9: Quality Improvement
                        * Domain 10: Evidence-based Practices
                        * Domain 11: Administration and Management
                        * Domain 12: Governance
                      * CDC Resources for Statesplus icon
                        * Data Use Agreement (DUA) Announcement
                        * DUA FAQs for Health Departments and Facilities
                        * ELC HAI/AR Program Funded Activities
                        * Grantee Meeting Presentations
                        * State Policy Resources
                    * Researchplus icon
                      * CDC Supported Projects
                      * Prevention Epicenters (PE)
                      * Healthcare Safety Research (SHEPheRD)
                      * Environmental Hygiene in Healthcare
                      * Modeling Infectious Diseases in Healthcare Network (MInD â Healthcare)
                    * Patient Safetyplus icon
                      * Antibiotic Resistant Germs in Hospitals
                    * Outpatient Settings
                    * Laboratory Resourcesplus icon
                      * Reference AST Data
                      * Multiplex Real-Time PCR Detection of KPC & NDM-1 genes
                      * Quinolones and the Clinical Lab
                      * VRE and the Clinical Laboratory
                      * Detection of Imipenem or Meropenem-resistance in Gram-negative Organisms
                      * Detection of: Oxacillin/MRSA
                      * Detection of VISA/VRSAplus icon
                        * S.E.A.R.C.H.
                      * Labs Role in the Search and Containment of VRSA
                      * Detection of Coagulase-negative _Staphylococcus_ species with Decreased Susceptibility
                      * VISA/VRSA Lab Testing Algorithm
                      * Use of an Inferred PFGE Algorithm
                      * Inferred Identification of Pulsed Field Types based on MLST clonal complex
                    * Outbreak and Patient Notificationsplus icon
                      * _B. cepacia_ â Saline Flush
                      * Contaminated Heater-Cooler Devices
                      * _B. cepacia_ â Docusate
                      * CDC Statement LA CRE
                      * Stem Cell and Exosome Products
                      * _Pseudomonas aeruginosa_
                      * Multistate Meningitis Outbreakplus icon
                        * Meningitis Case Counts
                        * Meningitis State Facilities Map
                        * Resources for Clinicians
                        * Resources for Patients
                        * Resources for Laboratories
                        * Infographic
                        * Microscopic Gallery of Pathologic Results
                      * Outbreaks in Outpatient Settingsplus icon
                        * 2007-2009 (Archived)
                      * Outbreak Resources for State Health Departmentsplus icon
                        * Evaluating an Infection Control Breach
                        * Outbreak Toolkit
                    * CDC HAI Commentaries
                    * Digital Press Kitsplus icon
                      * Get Smart About Antibiotics Week 2015
                      * Nearly half a million Americans suffer from _C. difficile_ infections in single year
                      * MRSA study: simple steps slash deadly infections in sickest hospital patients
                      * CDC Modeling Predicts Growth of Drug-resistant Infections and _C. difficile_
                      * Lethal, Drug-resistant Bacteria Spreading in U.S. Healthcare Facilities
                      * Hospital Infections: Some Progress, but More Work Needed
                      * Flow Restrictors May Help Prevent Medication Poisonings in Young Children
                      * The Impact of Unsafe Injection Practices in U.S. Healthcare Settings

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

