https://www.cdc.gov/injury/about/approach.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/injury/about/approach.html    
                Description: CDCâs Injury Center uses the same scientific methods to prevent injuries that have been used to prevent disease: carefully describing the problem through surveillance, studying factors that increase or decrease risk for injury, designing and evaluating intervention strategies that target these risk factors, and taking steps to ensure that proven strategies are implemented in communities nationwide.    
                Keywords: injury prevention approach, injury prevention method,  injury prevention strategy, Injury Safety and Violence    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Injury Prevention & Control

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Our Approach

Minus

Related Pages

Like diseases, injuries are preventable--they do not occur at random. CDC's
Injury Center uses the same scientific methods to prevent injuries that have
been used to prevent disease: carefully describing the problem through
surveillance, studying factors that increase or decrease risk for injury,
designing and evaluating intervention strategies that target these risk
factors, and taking steps to ensure that proven strategies are implemented in
communities nationwide.

To solve public health problems--including injuries--CDC uses a systematic
process called the public health approach. This approach has four steps:
define the problem, identify risk and protective factors, develop and test
prevention strategies, and assure widespread adoption of effective injury
prevention principles and strategies.

![Image of NCIPC's approach](/injury/images/about/approach_675x130.png)

Define the Problem

Before we can address an injury problem, we need to know how big the problem
is, where it is, and whom it affects. CDC accomplishes this by gathering and
analyzing data--processes often called "surveillance." These data can show us
how an injury problem changes over time, alert us to troubling trends in a
particular type of injury, and let us know what impact prevention programs are
having. Decision makers use these critical data in allocating programs and
resources to the areas most in need.

Identify Risk and Protective Factors

It is not enough to know that a certain type of injury is affecting a certain
group of people in a certain area. We also need to know why. What factors put
people at risk for that injury? And conversely, what factors protect people
from it? CDC conducts and supports research to answer these important
questions. Once we have that information, we can develop and implement
programs to eliminate or reduce risk factors for injuries and to capitalize on
or increase factors that protect people from being injured.

Develop and Test Prevention Strategies

In this step, we put knowledge into action. Using information gathered in our
research, CDC develops strategies to prevent particular injury problems. We
implement these strategies in communities that are experiencing the problem.
And we study the effects of these strategies to determine whether and how well
they're working. We use this information to identify any elements we need to
change to eliminate difficulties or increase effectiveness.

Assure Widespread Adoption

What we learn in the developing and testing step has little benefit if we keep
the information to ourselves. In this final step of the public health
approach, CDC shares its knowledge and may provide funding or expert
consultation so that communities can replicate these successful strategies.

Related Pages

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research Priorities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funded Programs, Activities, and Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC's Injury Center

Page last reviewed: January 9, 2020

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Injury Prevention and Control

home Injury Center

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About the Injury Centerplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Organization and Leadershipplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Center Organization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Center Director
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Approach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data and Statistics (WISQARS)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Overviewplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Key Data and Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cost of Injury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ten Leading Causes of Death and Injury Charts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Scientific Data, Statistics, and Surveillance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fatal Injury Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nonfatal Injury Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Violent Deaths (NVDRS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funded Programs, Activities and Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funded Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Core SVIPP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Drug-Free Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tribal Violence and Injury Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Extramural Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Injury Control Research Centers (ICRCs)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About ERPO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Notice of Funding Opportunity Announcements (NOFOs)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Board of Scientific Counselorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Meeting Minutes and Documents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Opioid Workgroup â 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Opioid Guideline Workgroup â 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Peer Review Agenda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Research Priorities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Press Roomplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Press Releasesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Expert Bios
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Digital Press Kitsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Featured Topicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * AllÂ Features â By Category
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Social Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publications

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this

Submit



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Home & Recreational Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Motor Vehicle Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prescription Drug Overdose
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traumatic Brain Injury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Violence Prevention

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM

