https://www.cdc.gov/injury/wisqars/facts.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/injury/wisqars/facts.html    
                Description: None    
                Keywords: Injury Safety and Violence    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Injury Prevention & Control

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# WISQARSâ¢ â Your source for U.S. Injury Statistics

Minus

Related Pages

CDC's WISQARS™ (Web-based Injury Statistics Query and Reporting System) is an
interactive, online database that provides fatal and nonfatal injury, violent
death, and cost of injury data from a variety of trusted sources. Researchers,
the media, public health professionals, and the public can use WISQARS™ data
to learn more about the public health and economic burden associated with
unintentional and violence-related injury in the United States.

![WISQARS fact sheet
cover](/injury/images/wisqars/fact_sheet_cover200w242h.jpg)

Download WISQARS Fact Sheet pdf icon[360KB, 2 pages]

Users can search, sort, and view the injury data and create reports, charts,
and maps based on the following:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Intent of injury (unintentional injury, violence-related, homicide/assault, legal intervention, suicide/intentional self-harm)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mechanism (cause) of injury (e.g., fall, fire, firearm, motor vehicle crash, poisoning, suffocation)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Body region (e.g., traumatic brain injury, torso, upper and lower extremities)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nature (type) of injury (e.g., fracture, dislocation, internal injury, open wound, amputation, and burn)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Geographic location (national, regional, state)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sex, race/ethnicity, and age of the injured person

## Fatal Injury Data*

WISQARS™ **fatal injury reports** include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Fatal injury reports** showing the total number of injury deaths and death rates by intent and mechanism (cause) of injury, geographic region/state, race/ethnicity, sex, and age.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Leading causes of death reports** showing the impact of injury-related deaths in the United States compared to other leading causes of death.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Years of potential life lost (YPLL) reports** showing the impact of premature death resulting from injury compared to other leading causes of premature death.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Color-coded fatal injury maps** showing patterns of county-level injury death rates across geographic areas (national, regional, and state level) to help users identify populations at high risk of injury by intent and mechanism (cause) of injury. Learn more about the fatal injury maps.

* Data are from the National Vital Statistics System (NVSS), CDC's National Center for Health Statistics.

**Use WISQARS ™ to:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Show the size of the public health and economic impact of the injury problem
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Describe, compare, and monitor trends in unintentional and violence-related injuries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Identify new or developing injury problems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Identify persons at risk of injury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Provide reliable surveillance data for program and policy decisions

## Nonfatal Injury Data**

WISQARS™ **nonfatal injury data reports** include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Nonfatal injury reports** providing national estimates of injuries treated in U.S. hospital emergency departments (ED) by intent and mechanism (cause) of injury, race/ethnicity, sex, and disposition when released from the ED (hospitalized, moved for specialized care, treated and released).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Leading cause of nonfatal injury reports** ranking leading causes of nonfatal injuries treated in EDs by age and sex of the injured patient, intent of injury, and disposition when released from the ED.

** Data are from the National Electronic Injury Surveillance System - All
Injury Program (NEISS-AIP) operated by the U.S. Consumer Product Safety
Commission with CDC's NCIPC.

## Violent Death Data***

WISQARS™ **violent death data reports** include the following information:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Number of violent-related deaths and death rates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Intent of injury (unintentional, homicide, legal intervention, suicide, undetermined intent, and homicide followed by suicide)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mechanism (cause) of injury (e.g., firearm, cut/pierce/stab, hanging/suffocation, poisoning)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Details about victims and offenders, including demographics, victim-offender relationship, veteran status, and facts about the injury incident found at National Violent Death Reporting System (NVDRS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Details about suicide victims suspected of a recent homicide

***Data are from the National Violent Death Reporting System (NVDRS) operated
by CDC's NCIPC.

## Cost of Injury Data****

WISQARS™ provides cost estimates for injury deaths (including violent deaths)
and nonfatal injuries where the patient was treated and released from a
hospital or ED.

**Cost of injury reports** include the following information:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Medical costs (e.g., treatment and rehabilitation)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Work loss costs (e.g., lost wages, benefits, and self-reported household services)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Combined costs (medical plus work loss)

Learn more about the cost of injury reports >>

**** Cost of injury data are based on medical and work loss costs in 2010.
Cost estimates for more recent years will be available in the future. Fatal
data are from NVSS. Nonfatal data are from NEISS-AIP. Estimated unit lifetime
medical and lifetime work loss costs were developed by the Pacific Institute
for Research and Evaluation (PIRE).

Page last reviewed: October 25, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Injury Prevention and Control

home Injury Center

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data and Statistics (WISQARS)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Overviewplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Key Data and Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cost of Injury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ten Leading Causes of Death and Injury Charts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Help and Tools for Injury Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fatal Injury Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nonfatal Injury Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Violent Deaths (NVDRS)

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this

Submit



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Home & Recreational Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Motor Vehicle Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prescription Drug Overdose
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traumatic Brain Injury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Violence Prevention

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM

