https://www.cdc.gov/injury/bsc/opioid-workgroup-2019.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/injury/bsc/opioid-workgroup-2019.html    
                Description: Prescribing Opioids for Chronic Pain Workgroup 2019    
                Keywords: POCP,  prescription,  opioids,  chronic pain,  injury,  injury prevention,  prevention of injury,  violence prevention,  injury and violence prevention,  prevention of violence,  Injury Center,  injury response,  cause of death, Injury Safety and Violence    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Injury Prevention & Control

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Opioid Workgroup â 2019

Minus

Related Pages

On December 4-5, 2019, a meeting of the Board of Scientific Counselors of the
National Center for Injury Prevention and Control (BSC/NCIPC) was held at the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in Atlanta, Georgia. CDC
provided a background presentationpdf icon on a potential update or expansion
of the _CDC Guideline for Prescribing Opioids for Chronic Pain --United
States, 2016_ _._ CDC also provided a presentationpdf icon pertaining to the
request that the BSC/NCIPC establish an Opioid Workgroup. The BSC/NCIPC
listened to and considered both presentations and the public comments that
followed, prior to voting to establish the Opioid Workgroup.  The workgroup
will report to the BSC/NCIPC, which is a federal advisory committee.

### Frequently Asked Questions

What is a Federal Advisory Committee?

The Federal Advisory Committee Actpdf icon (Public Law 92-463), often referred
to as "FACA", provides a mechanism for experts and stakeholders to participate
in the decision-making process, by offering advice and recommendations to the
federal government as members of federal advisory committees. A federal
advisory committee is defined as any committee, board, commission, council,
conference, panel, task force, or other similar group, which is established by
law, by the President, or by an agency official, and utilized to provide
advice or recommendations to the President or the agency, on issues or
policies within the scope of an agency's responsibilities. Federal advisory
committees must be engaged when federal agencies, such as the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), seek consensus advice and
recommendations from non-government individuals. Federal advisory committees
are a key component of CDC's overall strategy to achieve stakeholder and
public engagement in its efforts and commitment to improve people's health.

What is the Board of Scientific Counselors of the National Center for Injury
Prevention and Control (BSC/NCIPC)?

The Board of Scientific Counselors of the National Center for Injury
Prevention and Control (BSC/NCIPC) is one of the federal advisory committees
of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

What is the purpose of the Board of Scientific Counselors of the National
Center for Injury Prevention and Control (BSC/NCIPC)?

As one of the federal advisory committees of the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention (CDC), the BSC/NCIPC advises the Secretary, U.S. Department of
Health and Human Services; the Director, CDC; and the Director, National
Center for Injury Prevention and Control (NCIPC), regarding surveillance,
basic epidemiologic research, intervention research, and implementation,
dissemination, and evaluation of promising and evidence-based strategies for
the prevention of injury and violence. The BSC/NCIPC makes recommendations
regarding policies, strategies, objectives, projects, and priorities and
reviews progress toward injury and violence prevention. The BSC/NCIPC also
works with other institutions to study the causes of and strategies related to
the prevention of violence and injuries.

What is the primary purpose of the Opioid Workgroup, which was established by
the Board of Scientific Counselors of the National Center for Injury
Prevention and Control (BSC/NCIPC) in December 2019?

The Board of Scientific Counselors of the National Center for Injury
Prevention and Control (BSC/NCIPC) voted unanimously on December 4, 2019, to
establish an Opioid Workgroup. The primary purpose of the Opioid Workgroup is
to provide expert input and observations to the BSC/NCIPC on a possible update
or expansion of the _CDC Guideline for Prescribing Opioids for Chronic Pain
--United States, 2016_ _.  _The workgroup will help ensure broad, external,
transparent input on the diverse and complex issues involved in considering a
possible update or expansion of the 2016 guideline. In addition to completing
tasks related to its primary purpose, the Opioid Workgroup may also provide
expert input and observations on other matters which might arise related to
the opioid crisis.

What will be the composition of the Opioid Workgroup of the Board of
Scientific Counselors of the National Center for Injury Prevention and Control
(BSC/NCIPC)?

The Opioid Workgroup of the Board of Scientific Counselors of the National
Center for Injury Prevention and Control (BSC/NCIPC) will be made up of 12-20
people. The chair must be an appointed BSC/NCIPC member, and there must be at
least one other Opioid Workgroup member who is an appointed member of the
BSC/NCIPC. Remaining Opioid Workgroup members will be external experts who can
enhance the expertise on the workgroup to assist the group in completing its
tasks. A limited number of ad hoc members and federal representatives might
also be considered to provide additional expert opinions. Like all workgroups
formed by federal advisory committees, the Opioid Workgroup must have a
Designated Federal Officer (DFO).  For this workgroup, the DFO will be a
subject matter expert from the National Center for Injury Prevention and
Control (NCIPC).

What is the nomination process for an individual to be considered to serve as
a member of the Opioid Workgroup of the Board of Scientific Counselors of the
National Center for Injury Prevention and Control?

To be considered to serve as a member of the Opioid Workgroup of the Board of
Scientific Counselors of the National Center for Injury Prevention and
Control, nominees should email their curriculum vitae and current contact
information to NCIPCBSC@cdc.gov by or before Tuesday, February 4, 2020.

What perspectives are being sought among prospective members of the Opioid
Workgroup of the Board of Scientific Counselors of the National Center for
Injury Prevention and Control (BSC/NCIPC)?

In seeking a balance of perspectives among prospective Opioid Workgroup
members, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is continuing to
work to identify and ensure inclusion of audiences directly affected by the
_CDC Guideline for Prescribing Opioids for Chronic Pain --United States,
2016_, audiences that would be directly involved in implementing or
integrating updated or expanded recommendations into current practice, and
audiences qualified to provide representation of a specific discipline or
expertise in alignment with the tasks of the workgroup.

Perspectives‡¶* of prospective Opioid Workgroup members that would support or
enhance the workgroup's capacity to complete tasks include, but are not
limited to, those of the following groups (and must be balanced with
considerations including workgroup size).

In alphabetical order, groups include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clinicians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ethicists
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Patients and Families*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pharmacists/ Pharmacologists
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Public health practitioners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research scientists

‡ Given workgroup factors including size considerations, prospective members
who offer two or more perspectives are desired.

¶ CDC will exercise discretion regarding the appointment of workgroup members
that is consistent with federal advisory committee management requirements.

* Perspectives will be sought to represent those of people experiencing benefit, harm, or both related to opioids prescribed for pain.

What do the processes involved in forming the Opioid Workgroup of the Board of
Scientific Counselors of the National Center for Injury Prevention and Control
(BSC/NCIPC) include?

Processes involved in forming the Opioid Workgroup include that the Opioid
Workgroup's Designated Federal Officer (DFO) will:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Develop a list of prospective workgroup members (informed by sources including comments from BSC/NCIPC members during the December 4-5, 2019 public meeting and complete self-nominations received by or before February 4, 2020).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Request and review nominees' disclosures of competing conflicts of interest, if any.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Develop a list of prospective Opioid Workgroup members, ensuring maximal breadth of expertise and diversity in perspectives.

Update the BSC/NCIPC on the formation of the Opioid Workgroup at a Spring 2020
meeting; this public meeting will be announced in the Federal Register.

How will the Opioid Workgroup work with the Board of Scientific Counselors of
the National Center for Injury Prevention and Control (BSC/NCIPC)?

Opioid Workgroup members will provide clinical and methodologic feedback on
evidence reviews and a possible updated or expanded draft CDC opioid
prescribing guideline. The Opioid Workgroup will provide a report summarizing
the expert input/observations/findings obtained and present the report for
BSC/NCIPC deliberation, discussion, modification (if determined by the
BSC/NCIPC to be needed), and decision at a public meeting approximately one
year following the Opioid Workgroup's establishment in December 2019.

After receiving the report from its Opioid Workgroup, what will the Board of
Scientific Counselors of the National Center for Injury Prevention and Control
(BSC/NCIPC) do?

During a public meeting of the Board of Scientific Counselors of the National
Center for Injury Prevention and Control (BSC/NCIPC) that will include public
comment opportunities, the BSC/NCIPC members will review the Opioid
Workgroup's report and discuss, deliberate, and provide advice and
recommendations regarding a possible updated or expanded draft opioid
prescribing guideline to the Secretary, U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services; the Director, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC); and
the Director, the National Center for Injury Prevention and Control (NCIPC).
Following the public meeting, the report of the Opioid Workgroup will be
posted on the BSC/NCIPC website. Revision of the possible updated or expanded
draft guideline will be informed by the recommendations of the BSC/NCIPC and
public comment during the BSC/NCIPC meeting. It is anticipated that any
revised guideline will be posted for public comment in early 2021. Release of
a final updated or expanded guideline would be anticipated to occur in late
2021.

How can I learn more about the formation of the Opioid Workgroup and its
future work?

Presentations related to the background and request for formation of the
Opioid Workgroup are available here.  Presentations from future BSC/NCIPC
public meetings will also be posted on this site as they become available.

How can I learn more about the ongoing work of the National Center for Injury
Prevention and Control (NCIPC)?

Anyone who would like to receive information related to the ongoing work of
the National Center for Injury Prevention and Control (NCIPC) specific to drug
overdose prevention (including the ongoing response to the opioid overdose
epidemic) as well as other updates (e.g., pertaining to resources and tools)
may sign up at www.cdc.gov/emailupdates and select topics of interest.
Available offerings include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Subscription Topics: Injury, Violence & Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Subtopic: Drug Overdose News

Page last reviewed: January 15, 2020

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Injury Prevention and Control

home Injury Center

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About the Injury Centerplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Organization and Leadershipplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Center Organization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Center Director
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Approach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data and Statistics (WISQARS)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Overviewplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Key Data and Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cost of Injury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ten Leading Causes of Death and Injury Charts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Scientific Data, Statistics, and Surveillance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fatal Injury Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nonfatal Injury Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Violent Deaths (NVDRS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funded Programs, Activities and Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funded Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Core SVIPP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Drug-Free Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tribal Violence and Injury Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Extramural Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Injury Control Research Centers (ICRCs)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About ERPO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Notice of Funding Opportunity Announcements (NOFOs)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Board of Scientific Counselorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Meeting Minutes and Documents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Opioid Workgroup â 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Opioid Guideline Workgroup â 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Peer Review Agenda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Research Priorities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Press Roomplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Press Releasesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Expert Bios
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Digital Press Kitsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Featured Topicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * AllÂ Features â By Category
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Social Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publications

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this

Submit



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Home & Recreational Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Motor Vehicle Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prescription Drug Overdose
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traumatic Brain Injury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Violence Prevention

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM

