https://www.cdc.gov/injury/fundedprograms/tribal.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/injury/fundedprograms/tribal.html    
                Description: Learn more about injury and violence prevention and control    
                Keywords: injury,  injury prevention,  prevention of injury,  violence prevention,  injury and violence prevention,  prevention of violence,  Injury Center,  injury response,  cause of death, Injury Safety and Violence    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Injury Prevention & Control

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Injury Prevention in American Indian and Alaska Native Communities

Minus

Related Pages

![Western landscape with
roadway](/injury/images/fundedprograms/tribal_roadway_1175_347.png)

### Tribal Road Safety

Motor vehicle crashes are a leading cause of unintentional injury death for
American Indians/Alaska Natives.  
Learn more>>

![Smiling children on a tire swing with smiling
adult](/injury/images/fundedprograms/tribal_childrenSwinging_1175_347.png)

### Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACEs)

ACEs affect American Indians and Alaska Natives throughout their lives.  
Learn more>>

![Somber young man](/injury/images/fundedprograms/tribal_man-
somber_1175_347.png)

### Suicide among American Indians/Alaska Natives

Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR)  
Learn more>>

Each tribal community in Indian country is unique with its own set of
traditions, languages, spiritual practices, connections to elders, and social
ties. Native communities work with the support of CDC's National Center for
Injury Prevention and Control (Injury Center) to prevent injuries, the leading
cause of death for American Indians and Alaska Natives between the ages of 1
and 54.

The Injury Center partners with and supports native communities, federally
recognized tribes, Tribal Epidemiology Centersexternal icon, tribal
organizations, and Indian Health Serviceexternal icon to improve health and
wellness.

Opioid Overdose

The rate of drug overdose deaths among American Indians and Alaska Natives is
above the national average and recent data show this trend continuing. CDC
released funds to support 11 Tribal Epidemiology Centers and 15 tribal
entities. These funds will improve opioid overdose surveillance and help
address the opioid crisis in tribal communities.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Minnesota's Department of Health reports data through an opioid dashboardexternal icon and provides technical assistance to support state opioid use surveillance - this resource is available to 11 local tribal nations.

Motor Vehicle Safety

Motor vehicle crashes are a leading cause of unintentional injury death for
American Indians and Alaska Natives. Adult (aged ≥20 years) motor vehicle-
related death rates for American Indians and Alaska Natives are more than
twice that of non-Hispanic whites or blacks. Proven strategies to reduce motor
vehicle injuries and deaths can be successfully tailored to tribal
communities.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Injury Center provides guidelines and toolkits for tribal road safety.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Using Core State Violence and Injury Prevention Program (Core SVIPP) funding, Arizona established a car seat technician-training program, which trains tribal members to educate parents about safe car seat installation and use.

Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACEs)

The agency is working with American Indian and Alaska Native partners to
prevent Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACEs) by promoting safe, stable,
nurturing relationships and environments.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Injury Center, in partnership with the Association of American Indian Physicians, supported the development of ACEs resources for American Indian and Alaska Native physiciansexternal icon.

Suicide Prevention

CDC is building relationships among federal, state, and tribal partners to:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Gain a better understanding of if/how tribes are engaged in American Indian/Alaska Native suicide data collection and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Identify potential data sources to augment suicide-related data within American Indian/Alaska Native communities.

Resources

![Detail of a Native American
costume](/injury/images/fundedprograms/tribal_costume_370x275.png)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Office of Tribal Affairs and Strategic Alliances (OTASA):**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * OTASA focuses on activities that reflect CDC's role in helping to ensure that American Indian and Alaska Native communities receive public health services that keep them safe and healthy.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Web-based Injury Statistics Query and Reporting System (WISQARS):**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * WISQARS provides data for researchers, public health professionals, and the public to learn more about the public health and economic burden associated with unintentional and violence-related injury.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Epidemiological Assistance:**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC provides epidemiological support to American Indian and Alaska Native communities at the request of a tribal leader.



Publications

![View of a hands  showing rings with Native American
design](/injury/images/fundedprograms/tribal_hands_turquoise_370x275.png)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC and Indian Country: Working Together pdf icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC's National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion produced this 2017 CDC report featuring contributions from the Injury Center
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Child Safety and Booster Seat Use in Five Tribal Communities, 2010-2014 external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Illicit Drug Use, Illicit Drug Use Disorders, and Drug Overdose Deaths in Metropolitan and Nonmetropolitan Areas -- United States 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 2017 report with contributions from the Injury Center
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Opioid Crisis: Impact on Native American Communities pdf iconexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 2016 report from the Albuquerque Area Southwest Tribal Epidemiology Center, with contributions from the Injury Center
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Overdose Deaths Involving Opioids, Cocaine, and Psychostimulants -- United States, 2015-2016 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Rural and Urban Differences in Passenger-Vehicle-Occupant Deaths and Seat Belt Use Among Adults -- United States, 2014 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Suicides among American Indian/Alaska Natives -- National Violent Death Reporting System, 18 States, 2003-2014
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Suicide Surveillance Strategies for AI/AN Communitiespdf iconexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 2019 report from the Suicide Prevention Resource Center (SPRC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Suicide Trends among and within Urbanization Levels by Sex, Race/Ethnicity, Age Group, and Mechanism of Death--United States, 2001-2015 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tribal Motor Vehicle Injury Prevention: Best practices guide 2016 

Page last reviewed: January 8, 2020

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Injury Prevention and Control

home Injury Center

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About the Injury Centerplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Organization and Leadershipplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Center Organization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Center Director
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Approach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data and Statistics (WISQARS)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Overviewplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Key Data and Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cost of Injury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ten Leading Causes of Death and Injury Charts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Scientific Data, Statistics, and Surveillance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fatal Injury Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nonfatal Injury Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Violent Deaths (NVDRS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funded Programs, Activities and Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funded Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Core SVIPP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Drug-Free Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tribal Violence and Injury Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Extramural Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Injury Control Research Centers (ICRCs)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About ERPO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Notice of Funding Opportunity Announcements (NOFOs)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Board of Scientific Counselorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Meeting Minutes and Documents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Opioid Workgroup â 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Opioid Guideline Workgroup â 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Peer Review Agenda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Research Priorities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Press Roomplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Press Releasesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Expert Bios
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Digital Press Kitsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Featured Topicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * AllÂ Features â By Category
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Social Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publications

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this

Submit



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Home & Recreational Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Motor Vehicle Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prescription Drug Overdose
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traumatic Brain Injury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Violence Prevention

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM

