https://www.cdc.gov/injury/wisqars/overview/cost_of_injury.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/injury/wisqars/overview/cost_of_injury.html    
                Description: Cost of injuries and violence in the U/S.    
                Keywords: cost of injury,  cost of violence,  cost of injury and violence,  data,  statistics,  burden of injury, Injury Safety and Violence    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Injury Prevention & Control

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Cost of Injuries and Violence in the United States

Minus

Related Pages

The total lifetime medical and work loss costs of injuries and violence in the
United States was **$671 billion** in 2013. The costs associated with fatal
injuries was $214 billion while nonfatal injuries accounted for over $457
billion.

Injuries, including all causes of unintentional and violence-related injuries
combined, account for 59% of all deaths among people ages 1-44 years of age in
the U.S.--that is more deaths than non-communicable diseases and infectious
diseases combined. Injuries killed more than 199,800 in 2014--one person every
three minutes.

Each year, millions of people are injured and survive. In fact, 2.5 million
people are hospitalized, 26.9 million people are treated in emergency
departments and released each year. These people are often faced with life-
long mental, physical, and financial problems.

![Cost of injury in the U.S. 671
billion](/injury/images/wisqars/map_US_costOfInjury_671billion_300x216.png)

![Icon representing cost](/injury/images/wisqars/icon_costBlue_50x52.png)

Nearly $130 billion of the fatal injury costs were attributable to
unintentional injuries, followed by suicide ($50.8 billion) and homicide
($26.4 billion).

![Icon representing drug
poisioning](/injury/images/wisqars/icon_pillsBlue_50x52.png)

Drug poisonings, including prescription drug overdoses, accounted for 27% of
fatal injury costs.

![Icon representing falls](/injury/images/wisqars/icon_injuryBlue_50x52.png)

Falls (37%) and transportation-related injuries (21%) accounted for the
majority of costs treated in emergency departments.

![Icon representing males](/injury/images/wisqars/icon_manBlue_50x52.png)

Males account for the majority (78%) of fatal injury costs ($166.7 billion)
and nonfatal injury costs (63%; $287.5 billion).

### What Can Be Done?

Overview

For more than 20 years, CDC's Injury Center has helped protect Americans from
violence and injury threats. We can work together to protect people from
violence and injury.

Identifying and Monitoring the Problem

Using cutting-edge data systems to track injuries and deaths to better
understand the nature and scope of the problem and ensure that prevention
initiatives are guided by the best available data.

Conducting Research to Understand What Works

Conducting research to understand risk and protective factors and find what
works to prevent injuries and violence, informing decision making about
programs and policies to reduce violence and injuries.

Supporting National and State Programs

Supporting national and state injury programs to collect and use data, plan
injury prevention and control efforts, and carry out and evaluate potentially
life-saving interventions.

Raising Awareness and Educating

Raising awareness and educating health care providers, policy makers, public
health practitioners, and the public so we can advance prevention initiatives
and promote policies that save lives.

We Know What Works to Prevent Injury and Violence

At CDC's Injury Center we have sharpened our focus on key injury and violence
issues where we believe we can quickly have an impact in protecting Americans.
Some examples of what can be done in these key areas include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Motor Vehicle Injury** : Improving proper restraint use, including seat belts, child safety seats, and booster seats.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Prescription Drug Overdose** : Supplying healthcare providers with data, tools, and guidance for evidence-based decision making.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Older Adult Falls** : Making fall prevention a routine part of clinical care with tools for screening, assessing, treating, and following-up with patients.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Child Abuse and Neglect** : Ensuring children have safe, stable, nurturing relationships and environments.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Youth Sports Concussion** : Creating a culture of safety for youth sports; encouraging young athletes to report symptoms and providing concussion resources to coaches and parents.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Sexual Violence** : Using a comprehensive approach to promote respectful relationships, mobilize bystanders, empower women and girls, and create social and physical environments that are safe for all.

Learn More

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ten Leading Causes of Death and Injury Charts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * WISQARS Cost of Injury Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * WISQARS Fatal Injury Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * WISQARS Nonfatal Injury Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Estimated Lifetime Medical and Work-Loss Costs of Fatal Injuries -- United States, 2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Estimated Lifetime Medical and Work-Loss Costs of Emergency Department-Treated Nonfatal Injuries -- United States, 2013

Tools for Partners

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Slides: PDF pdf icon[PDF 471 KB] and PowerPoint ppt icon[PPT 2.2 MB]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Social Media Image #1 image icon[JPG 740KB]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Social Media Image #2 image icon[JPG 1.3MB]

Page last reviewed: January 23, 2020

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Injury Prevention and Control

home Injury Center

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data and Statistics (WISQARS)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Overviewplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Key Data and Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cost of Injury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ten Leading Causes of Death and Injury Charts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Help and Tools for Injury Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fatal Injury Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nonfatal Injury Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Violent Deaths (NVDRS)

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this

Submit



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Home & Recreational Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Motor Vehicle Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prescription Drug Overdose
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traumatic Brain Injury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Violence Prevention

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM

