https://www.cdc.gov/injury/erpo/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/injury/erpo/index.html    
                Description: The National Center for Injury Prevention and Control (NCIPC) Extramural Research Program Office (ERPO) facilitates extramural research prioritization, planning, and evaluation for both NCIPC and the National Center for Environmental Health/Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry.    
                Keywords: extramural research,  ERPO,  funded programs, Injury Safety and Violence    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Injury Prevention & Control

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Extramural Research

Minus

Related Pages

The National Center for Injury Prevention and Control (NCIPC) Extramural
Research Program Office (ERPO) facilitates extramural research prioritization,
planning, and evaluation for both NCIPC and the National Center for
Environmental Health/Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry; and
ensures their extramural research portfolios are designed for maximum public
health impact.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Injury Control Research Centers (ICRCs)

Research Highlight - Prescription Opioid Overdose

![View of a doctor's hands holding a pill
bottle](/injury/images/erpo/handsDoctor_pillBottle_370x275.png)

NCIPC-supported research is providing information and tools to improve the
safety and effectiveness of opioid prescribing and pain management.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Oregon State University researchers looked at opioid prescribing in the Oregon state Medicaid program and found the top 10% of patients and top 10% of prescribers received or prescribed, respectively, over 80% of the opioid volume in 2013, signaling where to focus intervention efforts.1 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Researchers at Johns Hopkins University showed the value and effectiveness of pain clinic regulation in reducing the number of opioid prescriptions written by providers engaged in high-risk prescribing.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * A team at University of Pittsburgh outlined patient and provider characteristics and patterns of opioid use that increase risk for overdose in Medicaid populations.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Carolinas Medical Center researchers developed an alert in an electronic health record to notify providers about the risk of opioid prescription for patients with factors that signal concern about potential misuse or opioid use disorder.4

**Footnotes**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. Oregon State University; Daniel M. Hartung Pharm. D.; Kim et al, The Concentration of Opioid Prescriptions by Providers and Among Patients in the Oregon Medicaid Programexternal icon; Psychiatric Services, (2016) 67 397-404.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2. Johns Hopkins University; G. Caleb Alexander, M.D.; Chang et al. Impact of prescription drug monitoring programs and pill mill laws on high-risk opioid prescribers: A comparative interrupted time series analysisexternal icon; Drug and Alcohol Dependence, (2016) 165 1-8.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3. University of Pittsburgh; Gerald Cochran Ph.D.; Gordon et al, Patterns and Quality of Buprenorphine Opioid Agonist Treatment in a Large Medicaid Programexternal icon; J of Addiction Medicine, (2015) 9 470-477.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4. Carolinas Medical Center; Rachel Seymour Ph.D.; Seymour et al, Prescription Reporting with Immediate Medication Utilization Mapping (PRIMUM): Development of an Alert to Improve Narcotic Prescribingexternal icon; BMC Medical Informatics and Decision Making, (2016) 16:111.

Research Highlight - Child Abuse and Neglect

![Happy family
interaction](/injury/images/erpo/family_happyTogether_370x275.png)

Child abuse and neglect are major public health problems in the US. In 2015,
an estimated 683,000 children were identified by child protective services as
victims of abuse or neglect, and approximately 1,670 children died from abuse
or neglect across the country. NCIPC is funding applied research to help build
the evidence for what works to prevent child abuse and neglect.

For example, NCIPC has funded research to study the effects of an intervention
to increase father engagement. That study found that fathers had a strong
desire to be in their child's lives, despite obstacles that blocked their
ability to do so. Fathers were interested in learning how to be a better
parent, and they wanted to be able to parent their children differently than
they were parented by their own fathers.1

NCIPC is also sponsoring research by Portland State University and the
Brazelton Touchpoints Center at Harvard to study the impact of Early Head
Start on child abuse and neglect, and research at the Tulane University School
of Public Health & Tropical Medicine to test brief parenting interventions
that are relatively low-cost, low-resource intensive, and adaptable to larger
and more universal target populations. This line of research could
significantly reduce the number of children maltreated in this country and
also contribute to a long-term reduction in a range of health problems later
in life that have been associated with exposure to abuse, neglect and other
adverse childhood experiences, including smoking, obesity, drug abuse, risky
sexual behavior, mental health disorders, and heart disease.

**Footnotes**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. Washington University; Patricia L. Kohl, PhD; Kristen D. Seay, MSW, PhD, Engaging African American Fathers in Behavioral Parent Training: To Adapt or Not Adaptexternal icon; Best Pract Ment Health. 2015 Spring; 11(1): 54-68.

Page last reviewed: January 6, 2020

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Injury Prevention and Control

home Injury Center

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About the Injury Centerplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Organization and Leadershipplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Center Organization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Center Director
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Approach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data and Statistics (WISQARS)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Overviewplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Key Data and Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cost of Injury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ten Leading Causes of Death and Injury Charts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Scientific Data, Statistics, and Surveillance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fatal Injury Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nonfatal Injury Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Violent Deaths (NVDRS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funded Programs, Activities and Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funded Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Core SVIPP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Drug-Free Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tribal Violence and Injury Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Extramural Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Injury Control Research Centers (ICRCs)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About ERPO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Notice of Funding Opportunity Announcements (NOFOs)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Board of Scientific Counselorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Meeting Minutes and Documents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Opioid Workgroup â 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Opioid Guideline Workgroup â 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Peer Review Agenda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Research Priorities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Press Roomplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Press Releasesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Expert Bios
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Digital Press Kitsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Featured Topicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * AllÂ Features â By Category
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Social Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publications

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this

Submit



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Home & Recreational Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Motor Vehicle Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prescription Drug Overdose
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traumatic Brain Injury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Violence Prevention

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM

