https://www.cdc.gov/injury/features/older-adults-mobility/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/injury/features/older-adults-mobility/index.html    
                Description: Do you or your loved ones have a plan to stay safe, mobile, and independent as you age? Many people make financial plans for retirement, but donât consider how to plan for potential mobility changes. The mobility planning tool can guide you to take action today to help keep yourselfâor your loved onesâsafe, mobile, and independent tomorrow.    
                Keywords: Older Adult Drivers, Older Adult Falls, MyMobility, Older Adult Mobility, CDC Features, Injury Featured Topics, Injury Violence &amp; Safety, Injury Safety and Violence    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Injury Prevention & Control

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Plan to Stay Safe, Mobile, and Independent

Minus

Related Pages

![Happy group of senior citizens walking hand in
hand](/injury/images/features/older-adults-mobility/header-1_1.png)

**Do you or your friends and family have a plan to stay safe, mobile, and
independent as you age? Many people make financial plans for retirement, but
don 't consider how to plan for potential mobility changes.**

CDC created a mobility planning tool, called MyMobility Plan, to help guide
you in protecting your mobility and independence as you get older. MyMobility
Plan shows how you can take action today to keep yourself--or your friends and
family--safe, mobile, and independent tomorrow.

What Is Mobility?

 **Mobility is the ability to get where you want to go, when you want to go
there.** Many people make financial plans for retirement, but not everyone
plans for mobility changes that may come with age.

How would you get to the grocery store if you suddenly found yourself unable
to drive? Would you be able to get to doctor appointments, social engagements,
or church? Does your community have reliable public transportation or ride
share services?

Use MyMobility Planpdf iconto help keep you safe, mobile, and independent as
you age.

Facts About Aging, Mobility, and Quality of Life

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * One in four Americans who are now 65 years old will live into their 90s.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Planning for mobility changes in the years to come is important for older adults who want to stay independent in their own homes and communities.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Falls and motor vehicle crashes, which are related to mobility, are the leading causes of injury and injury death in older adults (age 65+).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * When older adults stop driving or fall, they often experience reductions in their health, social interactions, and the ability to get around.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC has found that working through MyMobility Plan helps many older adults identify what they can do today to help maintain their mobility and plan for any potential changes that might come tomorrow.

![" "](/injury/images/features/older-adults-mobility/header-1.png)

Find outexternal icon about ride share services available for older adults.

![Stop Elderly Accidents, Deaths, and Injuries](/injury/images/features/older-
adults-mobility/logo_STEADI_409x162.png)

STEADI: Stopping Elderly Accidents, Deaths and Injuries.

Healthcare providers can take simple steps to decrease fall risk and prevent
falls in older adult patients.

Medicines Can Put Older Adults at Increased Risk

Another area that can affect mobility is the medicines you take. As you age,
your body processes what you eat and drink--including medicines--differently.
Medicines that worked well in the past could have side effects now or in the
future.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Some medicines have side effects--such as dizziness or sleepiness--that might cause falls or car crashes, which are the leading causes of injury among older adults.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Use the Medicines Risk Fact Sheet with MyMobility Planpdf iconto help you work with your doctor or pharmacist to stop, switch, or reduce medicines that might have dangerous side effects.

How to Use MyMobility

MyMobility Planpdf iconcan help keep you mobile and independent in your
community as you age. This planning tool is aimed at adults nearing retirement
age and provides information and tips in three main sections:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **MySelf** --a plan to manage personal health to maintain mobility and stay independent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **MyHome** --a home safety checklist to help prevent falls
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **MyNeighborhood** --a plan to get around in the community

Download and print out MyMobility Planpdf icontoday to create a personalized
plan for a safe, mobile, and independent life for you or your loved ones!

More Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MyMobility Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Older Adult Drivers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Older Adult Falls
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * NHTSA: Older Driversexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clinician's Guide to Assessing and Counseling Older Driversexternal icon

Page last reviewed: February 20, 2020

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Injury Prevention and Control

home Injury Center

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About the Injury Centerplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Organization and Leadershipplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Center Organization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Center Director
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Approach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data and Statistics (WISQARS)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Overviewplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Key Data and Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cost of Injury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ten Leading Causes of Death and Injury Charts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Scientific Data, Statistics, and Surveillance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fatal Injury Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nonfatal Injury Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Violent Deaths (NVDRS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funded Programs, Activities and Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funded Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Core SVIPP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Drug-Free Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tribal Violence and Injury Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Extramural Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Injury Control Research Centers (ICRCs)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About ERPO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Notice of Funding Opportunity Announcements (NOFOs)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Board of Scientific Counselorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Meeting Minutes and Documents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Opioid Workgroup â 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Opioid Guideline Workgroup â 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Peer Review Agenda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Research Priorities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Press Roomplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Press Releasesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Expert Bios
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Digital Press Kitsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Featured Topicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * AllÂ Features â By Category
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Social Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publications

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this

Submit



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Home & Recreational Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Motor Vehicle Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prescription Drug Overdose
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traumatic Brain Injury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Violence Prevention

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM

