https://www.cdc.gov/homeandrecreationalsafety/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/homeandrecreationalsafety/index.html    
                Description: None    
                Keywords: injury prevention,  accidents,  injuries,  safety,  safe homes,  prescription drug overdose,  heads up,  concussion,  sports injuries,  older adult falls,  water-related injuries,  drowning,  poisoning,  playground injuries,  bicycle injuries, Injury Safety and Violence    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Home and Recreational Safety

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Home and Recreational Safety

Minus

Related Pages

Injuries at home and at play are not accidents. They can be prevented. CDC
focuses on the science behind making people safe - working to prevent leading
causes of injuries. We work to ensure that all people have safe and healthy
homes and places to play.

![CDC's LINCS Guide: Linking motor vehicle crash data to help save lives on
the road.](/homeandrecreationalsafety/images/home-flexslider/LINCS-
guide_478x177.png)

###

![STEADI-Rx has tools and resources to help
pharmacists.](/homeandrecreationalsafety/images/home-flexslider/STEADI-Rx-
flexslider.png)

###

![MV PICCS](/homeandrecreationalsafety/images/home-
flexslider/19_303271-A_Underwood_social_media_graphic_Flexsliders_for_DUIP_flex.png)

###

![MyMobility Plan](/homeandrecreationalsafety/images/home-flexslider/CDC-
Sliders-HRSHomepage.png)

###

![Recognize. Monitor. Care. Help support children after
TBI.](/homeandrecreationalsafety/images/home-flexslider/TBI-Digital-Ads-no-
logo-625-231.png)

###

![Motor Vehicle Prioritizing Interventions and Cost Calculator for States \(MV
PICCS 3.0\) - Find the right motor vehicle strategies for your
state!](/homeandrecreationalsafety/images/home-
flexslider/MVPICCS_banner_625_208_JK.PNG)

###

![Prevent Falls. Stay Independent. Talk to your doctor about reducing your
fall risk. www.cdc.gov](/homeandrecreationalsafety/images/home-
flexslider/STEADI-DigitalAd-HomeandRecPage.jpg)

###

Related Topics

![Icon of pill bottle and pills](/homeandrecreationalsafety/images/icons/pdo-
icon-89684839.jpg)

###### Drug Overdose



![Illustration of the inside of a person's head highlighting the
brain](/homeandrecreationalsafety/images/icons/tbi-brain-dv497056.jpg)

###### Traumatic Brain Injury



![Image of a child wearing a
helmet](/homeandrecreationalsafety/images/icons/falls-kids-108443945.jpg)

###### Child Injury Prevention



![Image of a seat belt](/homeandrecreationalsafety/images/icons/seatbelt-icon-
skd186874sdc.jpg)

###### Motor Vehicle Safety



![Street sign warning of children crossing the
road](/homeandrecreationalsafety/images/icons/ped-icon-139740729.jpg)

###### Pedestrian Safety



![Image of people wearing bike
helmets](/homeandrecreationalsafety/images/icons/bicycle-77296115-50x50.jpg)

###### Bicycle Safety



![Image of a young woman with man standing behind
her](/homeandrecreationalsafety/images/icons/violence-prevention-50x50.jpg)

###### Violence Prevention



![Logo for CDC's Injury
Center](/homeandrecreationalsafety/images/icons/logo_CDC_InjuryCtr_50x50.jpg)

###### CDC's Injury Center



10 Ways to Reduce Injury

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. Wear the proper helmet for your activity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2. Wear a life jacket
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3. Have your eyes checked
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4. Remove tripping hazards around your house
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5. Learn how to swim
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6. Store medicine out of reach of children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7. Take medication only as directed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8. Place children in the proper booster or car seat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9. Wear your seatbelt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10. Walk on a sidewalk, when possible

Campaigns and Resources

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ![HEADS UP icon](/motorvehiclesafety/images/older_adult_drivers/MyMobility-Plan_crop-50-x-50.png)

MyMobility Plan

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ![HEADS UP icon](/homeandrecreationalsafety/images/icons/wisqars-50x50-CDC_Injury_Data_graphic.jpg)

WISQARS - Injury Data

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ![HEADS UP icon](/homeandrecreationalsafety/images/icons/HEADS-UP-Logo-50x50.png)

HEADS UP to Brain Injury Awareness

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ![STEADI icon](/homeandrecreationalsafety/images/icons/STEADI_logo_50x50.jpg)

STEADI: Fall Prevention for Health Care Providers

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ![Parents Are the Key logo](/homeandrecreationalsafety/images/icons/PATK_logo-50x50.jpg)

Parents Are The Key to Safe Teen Drivers

Page last reviewed: December 20, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Injury Prevention and Control

ï»¿

home Home & Recreational Safety

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Older Adult Fallsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Important Facts about Falls
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Falls Dataplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Deaths from Falls
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Falls by State
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hip Fractures Among Older Adults
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Older Adult Falls Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Compendium of Effective Fall Interventions, 3rd Edition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preventing Falls: Implementation Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Publications and Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STEADI Initiative for Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Water-Related Injuriesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Get the Facts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Poisoningplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tips to Prevent Poisonings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Protect the Ones You Love: Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fires

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this topic, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

STEADI for Providers

![STEADI logo](/steadi/images/STEADI_logo_200x75.png)  

Check out the STEADI website. Learn more about free **online training** for
health care providers.

Learn More

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM

