https://www.cdc.gov/injury/bsc/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/injury/bsc/index.html    
                Description: Learn more about injury and violence prevention and control    
                Keywords: Board of Scientific Counselors,  BSC,  injury,  injury prevention,  prevention of injury,  violence prevention,  injury and violence prevention,  prevention of violence,  Injury Center,  injury response,  cause of death, Injury Safety and Violence    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Injury Prevention & Control

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# NCIPC Board of Scientific Counselors

Minus

Related Pages

Board of Scientific Counselors NCIPC

 **Overview**  
The Board of Scientific Counselors (BSC) is one of CDC's federal advisory
committees, which work to achieve stakeholder and public engagement in CDC's
efforts and commitment to improve people's health. CDC's Injury Center BSC
works with other institutions to study the causes and strategies related to
the prevention of violence and injuries.

**Purpose**  
The BSC advises the Secretary, Department of Health and Human Services; the
Director, CDC; and the Director, NCIPC regarding surveillance, basic
epidemiologic research, intervention research, and implementation,
dissemination, and evaluation of promising and evidence-based strategies for
the prevention of injury and violence. The Board makes recommendations
regarding policies, strategies, objectives, projects, and priorities, and
reviews progress toward injury and violence prevention.

**Membership**  
The Board consists of up to 18 members, including the two co-chairs. Members
are selected by the Secretary, HHS, or his/her designee, from authorities
knowledgeable in the pertinent disciplines involved in injury and violence
prevention, including, but not limited to, epidemiologists, statisticians,
trauma surgeons, rehabilitation medical specialists, behavioral scientists,
health economists, program evaluation specialists, political science, law,
criminology, and specialists in various aspects of injury management.

The BSC also consists of 16 nonvoting ex officio members from related federal
agencies as well as such others as the Secretary deems necessary to carry out
the functions of the Board.

Charter

pdf icon[PDF - 256 KB, 4 Pages]

Roster

pdf icon[PDF - 75 KB, 6 Pages]

Meetings

Opioid Guideline Workgroup

Page last reviewed: January 2, 2020

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Injury Prevention and Control

home Injury Center

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About the Injury Centerplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Organization and Leadershipplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Center Organization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Center Director
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Approach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data and Statistics (WISQARS)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Overviewplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Key Data and Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cost of Injury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ten Leading Causes of Death and Injury Charts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Scientific Data, Statistics, and Surveillance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fatal Injury Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nonfatal Injury Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Violent Deaths (NVDRS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funded Programs, Activities and Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funded Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Core SVIPP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Drug-Free Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tribal Violence and Injury Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Extramural Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Injury Control Research Centers (ICRCs)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About ERPO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Notice of Funding Opportunity Announcements (NOFOs)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Board of Scientific Counselorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Meeting Minutes and Documents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Opioid Workgroup â 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Opioid Guideline Workgroup â 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Peer Review Agenda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Research Priorities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Press Roomplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Press Releasesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Expert Bios
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Digital Press Kitsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Featured Topicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * AllÂ Features â By Category
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Social Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publications

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this

Submit



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Home & Recreational Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Motor Vehicle Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prescription Drug Overdose
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traumatic Brain Injury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Violence Prevention

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM

