https://www.cdc.gov/injury/wisqars/fatal.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/injury/wisqars/fatal.html    
                Description: None    
                Keywords: Injury Safety and Violence    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Injury Prevention & Control

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Fatal Injury Data

Minus

Related Pages

Reports, Charts, and Maps

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * WISQARS Fatal Data Visualization 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * WISQARS Data Visualization Explore
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * WISQARS Data Visualization Compare
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fatal Injury Reports 1981-2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fatal Injury Maps 2008-2014
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cost of Injury Reports 2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Leading Causes of Death 1981-2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Years of Potential Life Lost (YPLL) 1981-2018

### Note Regarding Unintentional Firearm Deaths in 2014

A revised data file for 2014 was released on WISQARS June 22, 2017 to include
corrections affecting 125 deaths previously coded to "Accidental discharge of
firearms" (ICD-10 codes W32-W34). For more information, please refer to
Deaths: Final Data for 2014pdf icon.

Year-to-year death data for a given state can sometimes be affected by
unexpectedly large numbers of death certificates with the underlying cause
coded as "other ill-defined and unspecified causes of mortality" (ICD-10 code
R99). Large year-to-year variations in state-specific injury-related death
counts and/or rates for any reporting category defined by external-cause-of-
injury or diagnosis codes can be evaluated in the context of accompanying
year-to-year variations in the counts of death records with R99 as the
underlying cause code (this information can be obtained using CDC WONDER:
http://wonder.cdc.gov). Data on poisoning-related deaths for several states
(NJ, OH, WV) and the District of Columbia are believed to have been
particularly affected for reporting year 2009. However, users should remain
alert to the possibility that data for other injury reporting categories,
states, and/or years could also be affected.

###  *New Restrictions for Reporting State-level Death Counts and Death Rates
for 2008 and Later

The National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) in an agreement with the
National Association of Public Health Statistics and Information Systems
(NAPHSIS) has implemented a new, more restrictive rule for reporting National
Vital Statistics System (NVSS) state- and county-level death data for years
2008 and later, in order to avoid inadvertent disclosure of cases. Therefore,
the National Center for Injury Prevention and Control (NCIPC) has modified
WISQARS to accommodate the new data suppression rule; i.e., no figure,
including totals, should be less than 10 in tabulations for sub-national
geographic areas, regardless of the number of years combined with the data
from 2008 and later. Tabulations, charts, and maps produced by WISQARS using
only NVSS death data for years prior to 2008 are not affected by this new
rule.

Help, Tutorial, FAQs, and More

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Help
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tutorial
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Coding of Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Availability of New Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ten Leading Causes of Death and Injury Charts

Page last reviewed: March 30, 2020

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Injury Prevention and Control

home Injury Center

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data and Statistics (WISQARS)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Overviewplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Key Data and Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cost of Injury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ten Leading Causes of Death and Injury Charts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Help and Tools for Injury Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fatal Injury Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nonfatal Injury Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Violent Deaths (NVDRS)

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this

Submit



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Home & Recreational Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Motor Vehicle Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prescription Drug Overdose
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traumatic Brain Injury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Violence Prevention

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM

