https://www.cdc.gov/tobaccoLink: https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco    
                Description: Learn about the impact of smoking and tobacco use on the health of the nation and on individuals, actions to prevent youth from starting to use tobacco, smoke-free environments, programs to help tobacco users quit, and steps to eliminate tobacco-related health disparities in different population groups.    
                Keywords: smoking,  tobacco use,  tobacco,  use,  secondhand smoke,  second hand smoke,  publications,  data,  statistics,  health effects,  quit smoking,  stop smoking,  cessation,  prevention,  industry,  products,  chewing,  smokeless,  youth,  publication,  quick links, Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Smoking & Tobacco Use

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

# Smoking & Tobacco Use

Minus

Related Pages

Latest information about groups at higher risk for severe illness from
COVID-19.

![Collage of Tips participant with various smoking-related
illnesses](/tobacco/home-page-files/images/tips-2020-1175x375.jpg)

![blurred fast facts text](/tobacco/home-page-files/spotlight/images/fact-
spotlight.jpg)

FAST FACTS

Cigarette smoking and secondhand smoke cause disease, disability, and death.

![Doctor counseling patients](/tobacco/home-page-
files/spotlight/images/sgr-2020-dr-patients-spotlight.jpg)

SMOKING CESSATION SGR

Explore Surgeon General's Report to find latest research.

![Girl and boy with various tobacco products](/tobacco/home-page-
files/spotlight/images/state-fact-sheets-spotlight.jpg)

STATE FACT SHEETS

National Tobacco Control Program fact sheets for all 50 states and the
District of Columbia.

![OSHData Explore Create Share](/tobacco/home-page-
files/spotlight/images/oshdata-logo-spotlight.jpg)

OSHDATA

Explore comprehensive tobacco prevention and control data.

bookmark icon

Office on Smoking and Health

Learn the mission, vision, goals, organization, and other information about
this office.

no icon

Quit Smoking

Links to the _Tips_ ® Campaign, benefits of quitting, and cessation materials
for state tobacco control programs.

alert icon

Basic Information

Information on the dangers of tobacco use, including its health effects and
details on secondhand smoke and smokeless products.

people icon

Tobacco-Related Disparities

Patterns, prevention, and treatment of tobacco use among population groups in
the United States.

chart bar solid icon

Data and Statistics

Data and other information from various sources, such as CDC surveillance
systems, journal articles, and reports.

map icon

State and Community Resources

Information and resources related to tobacco control programs.

globe americas icon

Global Tobacco Control

Resources and the GTSSData, a data-driven site using four surveys conducted
worldwide.

user cog solid icon

Multimedia & Tools

Access selected printable and shareable media as well as free subscription
services and the Publication Catalog.

Quick Links to Tools & Resources

                    * OSHData
                    * STATE System
                    * Surgeon General's Reports
                    * Infographics
                    * Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWRs)
                    * Media Campaign Resource Center
                    * Newsroom
                    * Global Tobacco Surveillance System Data
                    * Publications Catalog
                    * Smoking & Tobacco Use Features

#### When CDC references tobacco on this website, we are referring to
commercial tobacco and not the sacred and traditional use of tobacco by some
American Indian communities.

Page last reviewed: March 23, 2020

Content source: Office on Smoking and Health, National Center for Chronic
Disease Prevention and Health Promotion

homeHome

                    * Office on Smoking and Health (OSH)plus icon
                      * OSH Partners with States
                      * National Tobacco Control Program Funding
                      * National Tobacco Control Programs in Actionplus icon
                        * Alabama
                        * Indiana
                        * Kentucky
                        * Nebraska
                        * New York
                        * West Virginia
                      * Personal Success Storiesplus icon
                        * From Alabama: Tyler's Story
                        * From Indiana: Anne's Story
                      * State Fact Sheets
                      * Funding Opportunity Announcements
                      * Interagency Committee on Smoking and Healthplus icon
                        * Overview
                        * Membership Roster
                        * Meeting Summaries
                        * Meeting Themes
                      * Newsroom
                      * Stay Connected
                      * Organization
                    * Quit Smokingplus icon
                      * How to Quitplus icon
                        * Benefits of Quitting
                      * Cessation Materials for State Tobacco Control Programsplus icon
                        * 2019: OSH's _Year of Cessation_
                        * National Quitline Data Warehouse
                    * Basic Informationplus icon
                      * Health Effectsplus icon
                        * Cancer
                        * Heart Disease and Stroke
                        * Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD)
                        * Smoking During Pregnancy
                        * Equality in Smoking & Disease: Nobody Wins!
                      * Healthcare Provider Resourcesplus icon
                        * Clinical Tools
                        * Patient Resources
                        * Quitlines and Other Cessation Support Resources
                        * Education and Training
                        * E-Cigarettes
                      * Electronic Cigarettesplus icon
                        * About Electronic Cigarettes (E-Cigarettes)
                        * Quick Facts on the Risks of E-cigarettes for Kids, Teens, and Young Adults
                        * Outbreak of Lung Injury Associated with E-cigarette Use, or Vapingplus icon
                          * For Healthcare Providers
                          * For State and Local Health Departments
                          * Frequently Asked Questions
                          * Resources
                      * Heated Tobacco Products
                      * Tobacco Productsplus icon
                        * Menthol and Cigarettes
                        * Tobacco Ingredient and Nicotine Reporting
                      * Secondhand Smokeplus icon
                        * Protect Our Children
                        * Children in the Home
                        * Going Smokefree Matters
                      * Youth Tobacco Prevention
                      * Related Resourcesplus icon
                        * Government Departments, Agencies, and Resources
                        * Other U.S. Organizations
                        * International Organizations
                    * Tobacco-Related Disparitiesplus icon
                      * African Americans and Tobacco Use
                      * American Indians/Alaska Natives and Tobacco Use
                      * Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, or Pacific Islanders and Tobacco Use
                      * Hispanics/Latinos and Tobacco Use
                      * Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Persons and Tobacco Use
                      * Cigarette Smoking and Tobacco Use Among People of Low Socioeconomic Status
                      * Tobacco Use by Geographic Region
                      * Tobacco Use and Quitting Among Individuals With Behavioral Health Conditionsplus icon
                        * What We Know: Tobacco Use and Quitting Among Individuals With Behavioral Health Conditions
                      * Promising Policies And Practices To Address Tobacco Use By Persons With Mental And Substance Use Disordersplus icon
                        * New York Implements Tobacco-Free Campus Policies
                        * Grant Funding in Oklahoma Changes Systems for Accessing and Addressing Tobacco Use
                        * Provider Training Results in Hawaii Behavioral Health Facilities Providing Counseling to Help Clients Quit
                        * Texas Provides NRT as Part of a Range of Tobacco Cessation Measures in Mental Health Treatment Settings
                        * New York and Oklahoma Make it Easier for Persons with Behavior Health Conditions to Access Non-Nicotine Cessation Medications
                        * Additional State Activities
                    * Data and Statisticsplus icon
                      * Fast Facts and Fact Sheets
                      * Surveysplus icon
                        * National Youth Tobacco Survey (NYTS)
                        * National Adult Tobacco Survey (NATS)
                        * Youth Tobacco Survey (YTS)
                        * Alaska Native Adult Tobacco Survey Guidance Manual
                        * American Indian Adult Tobacco Survey
                      * Data Resources
                      * Information by Topic
                      * OSHData
                      * STATE System
                      * Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWR)
                      * Vital Signs
                      * Surgeon General's Reports on Smoking and Tobacco Useplus icon
                        * 2020 SGR--Smoking Cessation
                        * 2016 SGR--E-Cigarette Use Among Youth and Young Adults
                        * Historical Reports
                        * A Brief History
                    * State and Community Resourcesplus icon
                      * Tobacco Control Programsplus icon
                        * National Tobacco Control Program
                        * Program Development Resources
                        * Surveillance and Evaluation Resources
                        * Smoking & Tobacco Use Features
                      * Best Practices for Comprehensive Tobacco Control Programsplus icon
                        * Cessation User Guide
                        * Health Communications User Guide
                        * Health Equity User Guide
                        * Program Infrastructure User Guide
                        * Youth Engagement User Guide
                      * The Community Guide
                      * FDA Rules and Regulations
                    * Global Tobacco Controlplus icon
                      * About GTSS
                      * The GATS Atlas
                    * Multimedia & Toolsplus icon
                      * Media Campaign Resource Center (MCRC)
                      * Infographics
                      * Shareable Media
                      * Subscription Services
                      * Publication Catalog

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

