https://www.cdc.gov/injury/stateprograms/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/injury/stateprograms/index.html    
                Description: None    
                Keywords: CDC,  core,  vipp,  core vipp,  state programs,  violence,  injury,  prevention, Injury Safety and Violence    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Injury Prevention & Control

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Core State Violence and Injury Prevention Program (Core SVIPP)

Minus

Related Pages

![Core SVIPP State
Profiles](/injury/images/states/banner_core_state_profiles_mapUS1175w347h.png)

![Core SVIPP Regional Netowrk Coordinating Organization
\(RNCO\)](/injury/images/states/banner_RNCO_flag_1175w347h.png)

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Injury
Prevention and Control (Injury Center) funds 23 state health departments
through the Core State Violence and Injury Prevention Program (Core SVIPP-
CE16-1602). Core SVIPP helps states implement, evaluate and disseminate
strategies that address the most pressing injury and violence issues
including: child abuse and neglect, traumatic brain injury, motor vehicle
crash injury and death, and intimate partner/sexual violence. The program
builds on the infrastructure established through previous iterations of the
Core VIPP (CE11-1101). The overall purpose of the Core SVIPP is to: 1)
decrease injury and violence related morbidity and mortality and 2) increase
sustainability of injury prevention programs and practices.

Did You Know?

![it's hip - hub for injury
prevention](/injury/images/hip/HIP_promo_pg4_300w152h.png)

The Hub for Injury Prevention (HIP) is an easy-to-search one-stop shop for
injury and violence prevention training, tools, and resources.

Learn more: it's HIP!

Watch the Video!

CDC's Core State Violence and Injury Prevention Program: Injury Prevention is
Everywhere

Watch the Video!

CDC's Core SVIPP: Regional Network Coordinating Organizations (RNCOs)

alert icon

Core SVIPP Funded State Programs

map icon

Funded State Profiles

grid icon

Core SVIPP Topic Briefs

idea icon

Core SVIPP Success Stories

people icon

Regional Network Coordinating Organization

people icon

National Peer Learning Team

stack icon

Publications & Resources

book icon

Core SVIPP Summary Report

Page last reviewed: April 1, 2020

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Injury Prevention and Control

home Injury Center

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About the Injury Centerplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Organization and Leadershipplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Center Organization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Center Director
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Approach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data and Statistics (WISQARS)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Overviewplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Key Data and Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cost of Injury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ten Leading Causes of Death and Injury Charts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Scientific Data, Statistics, and Surveillance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fatal Injury Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nonfatal Injury Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Violent Deaths (NVDRS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funded Programs, Activities and Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funded Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Core SVIPP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Drug-Free Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tribal Violence and Injury Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Extramural Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Injury Control Research Centers (ICRCs)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About ERPO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Notice of Funding Opportunity Announcements (NOFOs)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Board of Scientific Counselorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Meeting Minutes and Documents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Opioid Workgroup â 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Opioid Guideline Workgroup â 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Peer Review Agenda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Research Priorities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Press Roomplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Press Releasesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Expert Bios
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Digital Press Kitsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Featured Topicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * AllÂ Features â By Category
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Social Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publications

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this

Submit



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Home & Recreational Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Motor Vehicle Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prescription Drug Overdose
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traumatic Brain Injury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Violence Prevention

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM

