https://www.cdc.gov/smallpox/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/smallpox/index.html    
                Description: Smallpox     
                Keywords: smallpox, small pox, pocks, poxvirus, bioterrorism, terrorism smallpox vaccine, vaccination, immunization, variola, vaccinia, VIG, smallpox vaccine safety, orthopoxvirus, orthopoxviridae    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Smallpox

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Smallpox Virus

Minus

Related Pages

Thousands of years ago, variola virus (smallpox virus) emerged and began
causing illness and deaths in human populations, with smallpox outbreaks
occurring from time to time. Thanks to the success of vaccination, the last
natural outbreak of smallpox in the United States occurred in 1949. In 1980,
the World Health Assembly declared smallpox eradicated (eliminated), and no
cases of naturally occurring smallpox have happened since.

Smallpox research in the United States continues and focuses on the
development of vaccines, drugs, and diagnostic tests to protect people against
smallpox in the event that it is used as an agent of bioterrorism.

![A transmission electron micrograph \(TEM\) of smallpox virus
particles.](/smallpox/images/flexslider-virus.jpg)

###

Smallpox was a serious infectious disease

![A laboratorian is shown working in a high-security lab wearing an air-tight,
self-contained, positively-pressurized suit, which keeps him free of possible
contamination while he carries out his
experiments.](/smallpox/images/laboratorian.jpg)

###

Research on smallpox continues today

![The pustule covered hand of a baby with a mild case of smallpox.
](/smallpox/images/sp-hand.jpg)

###

Smallpox sores covered the body.

What is Smallpox?

Transmission

Signs and Symptoms

Prevention and Treatment

History of Smallpox

Vaccine Basics

Research

Bioterrorism

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * WHO Smallpox WebsiteExternal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * NIH Smallpox ResearchExternal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC Poxvirus and Rabies Branch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Poxvirus Diseases

For Clinicians

![physcian](/smallpox/images/clinician-sm.jpg)

For Public Health Planners

![emergency room sign outside hospital](/smallpox/images/emergency-room-
sm.jpg)

For Laboratory Personnel

![lab worker looking through microscope](/smallpox/images/lab-worker-sm.jpg)

For Vaccinators

![person getting vaccinated](/smallpox/images/vaccination-sm.jpg)

Page last reviewed: July 12, 2017

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of High-
Consequence Pathogens and Pathology (DHCPP)

home Smallpox

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Smallpox
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * History of Smallpox expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Spread and Eradication of Smallpox
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Signs and Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prevention and Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Smallpox Vaccine Basics expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Vaccine Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Side Effects of Vaccination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Who Should Get a Smallpox Vaccination?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Bioterrorism expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Threat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Preparedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Detection and Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Bioterrorism Response Planning expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Community-Based Planning for a Smallpox Emergency expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Build Community Partnerships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Identify Resources and Needs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Help People with Functional, Language, or Cognitive Needs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Public Health Response Activities expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Identify, Diagnose, and Isolate Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Enhanced Surveillance and Case Reporting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epidemiological Investigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccination Strategies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ring Vaccination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Community-Wide (Mass) Vaccination expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Download Maxi-Vac Version 1.0 and Maxi-Vac Alternative
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Description of Maxi-Vac Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Differences Between Maxi-Vac Version 1 and Alternative Version
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Communication expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sample Alert Messages for Healthcare Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sample Alert Messages for the Community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Information Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthcare Facility Response Activities expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Protect and Care for Smallpox Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccinate Your Staff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Care for Your Staff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevent Spread of Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * For Clinicians expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clinical Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diagnosis & Evaluation expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Evaluating Patients for Smallpox
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Vaccination expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Contraindications to Vaccination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccine Administration
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Expected Vaccine Reactions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccine âTakeâ Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccine Adverse Events
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Medical Management of Adverse Reactions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Comparison of Reactions for First-Time Vaccinees and Revaccinees
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Examples of Major or âTakeâ Reactions to Smallpox Vaccination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccine Adverse Reaction Images
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Administering ACAM2000 Smallpox Vaccine Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory Personnel expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Specimen Collection expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Specimen Collection and Transport Guidelines for Suspect Smallpox Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Specimen Collection and Transport Guidelines for Suspect Smallpox Vaccine Adverse Events
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Specimen Collection Procedures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Negative Staining Electron Microscope Protocol for Rash Illness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Packaging and Transporting Infectious Substances
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Rash Illness Protocol expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Chart 1: Acute, Generalized Vesicular or Pustular Rash Illness Protocol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Chart 2: Laboratory Testing for Acute, Generalized Vesicular or Pustular Rash Illness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Chart 3: Laboratory Testing for Suspect Smallpox Vaccine Adverse Event (Vaccinia)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Chart 4: Laboratory Testing for Environmental Sample

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM

