https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/vaxview/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/vaxview/index.html    
                Description: The CDC recommends vaccination to protect against diseases such as whooping cough, meningococcal disease and HPV caused cancers.    
                Keywords: vaccination coverage,  state coverage of vaccines,  hpv vaccine,  hpv vaccination by state,  meningococcal vaccination,  whooping cough vaccine,  vaccination rates,  vaxview, Immunization    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search

Vaccines site

Vaccines site All CDC

Submit

For a full list of topics: All A-Z Topics

VaxView

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

# VaxView Vaccination Coverage

Minus

Related Pages

<< Back to Vaccines Home

![Vaccination coverage under a magnifying glass with
syring](/vaccines/vaxview/images/vaccination-coverage.png)

The VaxView websites provide vaccination coverage data for all ages.
Monitoring coverage for recommended vaccinations across the country helps CDC
assess how well local areas, states, and the nation are protected from
vaccine-preventable diseases.

What is Vaccination Coverage and Why is it Important?

Vaccination coverage is the estimated percentage of people who have received
specific vaccines. Health departments all over the United States monitor
vaccination coverage to understand how well communities are protected from
vaccine-preventable diseases. Vaccination coverage information is used to
identify areas and groups with lower vaccination coverage so public health
departments, health care partners, and schools can take action to help improve
vaccination coverage and protect everyone from vaccine-preventable diseases.

                    * ChildVaxView
                    * SchoolVaxView
                    * TeenVaxView
                    * AdultVaxView
                    * FluVaxView

![ChildVaxView](/vaccines/vaxview/images/childvaxview-small.jpg)

View data on vaccination coverage for children 19 through 35 months old. Data
are available for the vaccines routinely recommended for young children by the
Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP). These vaccines to protect
young children from potentially serious diseases like measles and whooping
cough. Data are available for local areas, states, HHS regions, and the nation
from the National Immunization Survey (NIS). Sociodemographic data from the
NIS are also available.

![SchoolVaxView](/vaccines/vaxview/images/schoolvaxview-small.jpg)

Each school year, states and local areas report the estimated number of
children attending kindergarten who have received vaccinations recommended or
required by their state or who have received an exemption to one or more
required vaccinations. View data reported by states, as well as information
about state school vaccination requirements.

![TeenVaxView](/vaccines/vaxview/images/teenvaxview-small.jpg)

View data on adolescent vaccination coverage for vaccines routinely
recommended by the ACIP for preteens and teens. These include HPV, Td or Tdap,
MenACWY, and other vaccines. Data are available for local areas, states, HHS
regions, and the nation from the National Immunization Survey-Teen (NIS-Teen).
Sociodemographic data from the NIS-Teen are also available.

![AdultVaxView](/vaccines/vaxview/images/adultvaxview-small.jpg)

View data on vaccination coverage for adults 18 years and older. CDC routinely
assesses how many adults received pneumococcal, Td/Tdap, shingles (herpes
zoster), and other vaccinations. Data are available for local areas, states,
HHS regions, and the nation from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance
System (BRFSS) and the Long-Term Care Minimum Data Set (MDS). Reports using
data from the National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) and other data sets are
also available.

![FluVaxView](/vaccines/vaxview/images/fluvaxview-small.jpg)

View flu vaccination data for people 6 months and older as recommended by the
Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP), for people at increased
risk for flu such as nursing home residents and pregnant women, and for health
care personnel, who could transmit flu to those at increased risk. Data are
available for local areas, states, HHS regions, and the nation from the
National Immunization Survey-Flu (NIS-Flu), the Behavioral Risk Factor
Surveillance System (BRFSS), the Long-Term Care Minimum Data Set (MDS), and
other data sets.

How does CDC track vaccination coverage?

CDC keeps track of the vaccination rates for the vaccines that are recommended
by the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP). This group of
medical and public health experts develops recommendations on the use of
vaccines to prevent vaccine-preventable diseases (VPDs) that occur in infants,
children, adolescents, and adults. CDC uses several surveys to measure the
vaccination rates for vaccines recommended for different groups, including:

                    * The National Immunization Survey (NIS) for vaccinations given through 35 months
                    * School Vaccination Assessment Reports for vaccinations required to enroll in kindergarten
                    * The NIS-Teen for vaccinations given to preteens and teens
                    * The Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) for vaccinations given to adults, including flu vaccinations
                    * The NIS-Flu for flu vaccinations given to 6 months through 17 years

Related Pages

                    * WHO/UNICEF estimates of national immunization coverageexternal icon
                    * State Immunization Program Managersexternal icon
                    * National Immunization Surveys
                    * School Vaccination Coverage and Exemption Methods
                    * Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS)
                    * Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP)

Page last reviewed: October 6, 2016

Content source: National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases

home VaxView Home

                    * ChildVaxView
                    * SchoolVaxView
                    * TeenVaxView
                    * AdultVaxView
                    * FluVaxView

Related Links

                    * Vaccines & Immunizations
                    * Vaccine Safety
                    * Immunization Action CoalitionExternal file_external 
                    * AIMExternal file_external 
                    * Vaccine Education CenterExternal file_external 

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

