https://emergency.cdc.gov/agent/ricin/qa.aspLink: https://emergency.cdc.gov/agent/ricin/qa.asp    
                Description: Information on terrorism and public health. Provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).    
                Keywords: bioterrorism,  biowarfare,  chemicalterrorism,  radiation,  radiological,  smallpox,  anthrax,  botulism,  plague,  tularemia,  viral,  hemorrhagic,  fevers,  abrin,  cyanide,  mustard,  gas,  ricin,  sarin,  VX,  preparation,  preparedness,  planning,  training,  response,  counteremergency,  emergencies,  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Ricin    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Emergency Preparedness and Response

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Questions and Answers About Ricin

Minus

Related Pages

#### What is ricin?

Ricin is a poison found naturally in castor beans. If castor beans are chewed
and swallowed, the released ricin can cause injury. Ricin can be made from the
waste material left over from processing castor beans. It can be made in the
form of a powder, a mist, or a pellet, or it can be dissolved in water or weak
acid.

#### How toxic is ricin? How do people get sick from it?

Ricin is very toxic. It works by getting inside the cells of a person's body
and preventing the cells from making the proteins they need. Without the
proteins, cells die. Eventually this is harmful to the whole body, and may
cause death.

As with most chemicals, whether or not a person becomes ill after exposure to
ricin depends on how much ricin the person was exposed to, how long the
exposure lasted, what the exposure method was (inhalation, ingestion, or
injection), and other factors. In general, when the dose is the same, being
exposed to ricin by injection has the greatest potential for causing illness,
followed by inhalation, and then ingestion.

The purity of the ricin can also significantly affect the how sick someone
becomes. For instance, ricin has greater potential for causing illness if it
has been purified by special, technically difficult processes that are not
readily available. In addition to the complexities involved in producing ricin
that is highly purified, it is also very difficult to produce ricin that
retains the physical properties which make it easy to inhale. These are just
some examples of the more important factors that can help predict whether or
not someone may get sick after being exposed to ricin.

#### How might I be exposed to ricin?

You can be exposed to ricin either by ingesting (swallowing) or inhaling
(breathing) material containing ricin. In a few rare, past cases, injections
of ricin have led to poisoning. This is a very unlikely method of exposure
because it requires someone to actually inject the material into you

#### What are the signs and symptoms of ricin poisoning?

If ricin is ingested, initial symptoms typically occur in less than 6 -12
hours. These initial symptoms are most likely to affect the gastrointestinal
system and include nausea, vomiting and abdominal pain. The symptoms of ricin
poisoning are then likely to rapidly progress (generally over 12-24 hours) to
include problems such as severe dehydration, and kidney and liver problems.
This rapid progression of symptoms and illness is noticeably different than
what typically occurs with most (but not all) commonly encountered infectious
foodborne illnesses, which generally resolve within a day or two.
Nevertheless, it is important to note that ricin is not the only potential
cause of such symptoms, other illnesses due to chemicals and non-chemical
causes (e.g., infectious) can also present with these signs and may be cause
for concern.

If ricin is inhaled, initial symptoms may occur as early as 4-6 hours after
exposure, but serious symptoms could also occur as late as 24 hours after
exposure. The initial symptoms are likely to affect the respiratory system and
can include difficulty breathing, shortness of breath, chest tightness, and
cough. The symptoms of ricin poisoning are then likely to rapidly progress
(generally over 12-24 hours) to include problems such as worsening respiratory
symptoms, pulmonary edema (fluid within the lungs), and eventually,
respiratory failure. This rapid progression of symptoms and illness is
noticeably different than what typically occurs with most common colds and
cough-type illnesses. Nevertheless, it is important to note that ricin is not
the only potential cause of such symptoms, other illnesses due to chemicals
and non-chemical causes (e.g., infectious) can also present with these signs
and may be cause for concern.

Death from ricin poisoning can take place within 36 to 72 hours of exposure,
depending on the route of exposure (inhalation, ingestion, or injection) and
the dose received.

#### What should I do if I feel I'm experiencing symptoms of ricin exposure?

Seek medical attention right away.

#### Is it true that there's no cure/antidote for ricin? What can be done to
help people who have been exposed to ricin? Are treatments available?

It is true that no antidote exists for ricin. Because no antidote exists, the
most important factor is avoiding ricin exposure in the first place. If
exposure cannot be avoided, the most important factor is then getting the
ricin off or out of the body as quickly as possible. Ricin poisoning is
treated by giving victims supportive medical care to minimize the effects of
the poisoning. The types of supportive medical care would depend on several
factors, such as the route by which victims were poisoned (that is, whether
poisoning was by inhalation, ingestion, or skin or eye exposure). Care could
include such measures as helping victims breathe, giving them intravenous
fluids (fluids given through a needle inserted into a vein), giving them
medications to treat conditions such as seizure and low blood pressure,
flushing their stomachs with activated charcoal (if the ricin has been very
recently ingested), or washing out their eyes with water if their eyes are
irritated.

#### How are anthrax and ricin similar or different?

Anthrax is the spore form of a bacterium (an organism) that can be dried,
purified, and made into a powder that can be inhaled (breathed in). After
anthrax spores are inhaled, they can become active, reproduce in the body, and
cause disease. This process takes at least 24 hours but usually several days.
However, the spore can stay in the body for weeks before becoming active and
causing illness, which is why antibiotics to prevent anthrax are given for a
long period (60 days) after a person has been exposed.

Ricin is a poison found naturally in castor beans. Ricin can be made from the
waste material left over from processing castor beans and then purified, and
treated to form a powder that can be inhaled although this is a very
technically difficult and complicated process. Most ricin poisonings have
occurred when the ricin was injected or when the person swallowed the ricin.
Symptoms of ricin poisoning are most likely to occur within 4 to 12 hours if
the ricin was inhaled or swallowed.

#### Is ricin poisoning contagious?

No, ricin poisoning is not contagious. It cannot spread from person to person
through casual contact.

#### Can ricin be "aerosolized" like anthrax?

Yes, ricin in the form of a fine powder can be suspended in air.

#### Has anyone ever died after being exposed to ricin?

Yes, several deaths have resulted after a victim was injected with ricin.
People have been poisoned with ricin after eating castor beans, but most cases
of eating castor beans do not result in poisoning, because it is difficult to
release the ricin from castor beans. Also, ricin is not as well absorbed
through the gastrointestinal tract when compared to injection or inhalation.

#### Where can I find general information about ricin?

See the ricin fact sheet.

#### Is there a TTY phone line available where I can get information about
ricin?

Yes, you can call the CDC TTY phone line at 888-232-6348.

#### What form is ricin found in? Is it a powder?

Ricin can be in the form of a powder, a mist, or a pellet, or it can be
dissolved in water or weak acid (from the ricin fact sheet).

#### Will the irradiation equipment used by the postal service have any effect
on ricin?

Postal irradiation may have some effect, but CDC still considers ricin to be
fully functional and just as dangerous even after irradiation.

#### Where can I find information about personal protective equipment and
cleanup for ricin?

See the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health emergency
response card.

#### If I was present where ricin was located, could I have carried it home?
Is my house safe?

If ricin was released into the air, some ricin might have gotten onto the
clothing of people who were present and might have then been transported on
the clothing to their homes. The likelihood is very low in this instance that
enough ricin would have gotten onto your clothing and would have been
transported home with you for your health to be threatened. However, any
exposed clothing should be handled according to the general guidelines given
in the " >"Personal Cleaning and Disposal of Contaminated Clothes" guidelines.

#### How do I know my family is safe?

Ricin poisoning is not contagious. People who were not present where the ricin
was found are not likely to have been exposed at levels high enough to
negatively affect their health.

#### What are the long-term effects of ricin exposure?

No long-term direct effects are known to exist from ricin exposure that did
not result in symptoms. Following severe ricin poisoning, the damage done to
vital organs may be permanent or have lasting effects.

#### Are certain populations more vulnerable to the health effects of ricin
exposure, such as children, pregnant women, the elderly, people who are
immunocompromised, or people with respiratory or gastrointestinal (GI) tract
illnesses?

Although it is unknown whether these populations are at higher risk, the
possibility of higher risk does exist. People who have existing illnesses of
the respiratory or GI tract may have pre-existing tissue irritation or damage
as a result of their illness. If this damaged or irritated tissue is exposed
to ricin, the result may be further injury and greater absorption of the ricin
toxin.

#### Is it possible that health effects may not occur until more than 72 hours
after exposure to ricin?

The information that exists on ricin poisoning in humans is extremely limited.
Much of what we know about ricin poisoning comes from animal studies and only
a few human cases. Nevertheless, enough information exists on ricin poisoning
by ingestion (swallowing) to say that it is extremely unlikely that the onset
of signs and symptoms of ricin poisoning by ingestion would occur more than 10
hours after exposure. Much less information exists on ricin poisoning by
inhalation (breathing in ricin), but initial poisoning symptoms are very
unlikely to begin more than 24 hours after exposure.

#### What will happen to personal belongings exposed to ricin?

Personal belongings should be handled according to the " >"Personal Cleaning
and Disposal of Contaminated Clothes" guidelines.

#### What if an event involving ricin happens again?

If there is another event involving ricin, the necessary steps to protect the
public's health and assess for building contamination will be repeated.

#### What tests are used to detect ricin?

There are several tests used to detect ricin, including tests for
environmental samples of suspicious materials, and for clinical specimens from
human body fluids. Public health laboratories that are part of CDC's
Laboratory Response Network (LRN) use rapid detection tests for environmental
samples. Some LRN laboratories can test clinical urine samples for the
presence of ricinine, an indicator of ricin exposure.

#### What do the results of these tests tell us?

The rapid tests indicate whether components of the castor bean are present in
the environmental sample and whether ricin toxin is present. If both of these
tests yield a "positive," then the presence of ricin can be confirmed.

Another assay for environmental samples measures the activity of the ricin
toxin, since ricin toxicity can be affected by several factors including
temperature. The toxin activity test tells officials whether the toxin is
still dangerous.

The presence of ricinine in urine helps to establish whether ricin exposure
has occurred, and may help estimate the degree of exposure if the time of
exposure is known.

#### How long does it take for these tests to yield results?

The rapid detection tests used by the LRN can be completed within 6-8 hours
after receipt of samples. The toxin activity test takes about 48 hours to
perform but the availability of cultured cells used in the test may delay
testing.

For a clinical urine specimen, measurement of ricinine can be completed within
several hours after the samples are received.

#### What is the difference between a preliminary test and a confirmatory
test?

A preliminary test result - such as a positive for ricin components - must be
confirmed by a second LRN test, which detects ricin toxin. The ricin toxin
test is considered the best test for determining the presence of ricin. A
positive result for ricin components can be used in public health decision
making while officials wait for confirmatory results from the ricin toxin
test.

NOTE: These Q & As are based on CDC's best current information. They may be
updated as new information becomes available.

## Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facts About Ricin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC Ricin Homepage

Page last reviewed: April 4, 2018

Content source: National Center for Environmental Health (NCEH)

home Specific Hazards

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Bioterrorism expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * A-Z expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Anthrax (Bacillus anthracis)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Arenaviruses expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Treatment & Infection Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Specimen Submission & Lab Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Education & Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Related Bioterrorism Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Bacillus anthracis (Anthrax)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Botulism (Clostridium botulinum toxin)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Brucella species (brucellocis) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Laboratory Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Surveillance & Investigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Burkholderia mallei (glanders)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Burkholderia pseudomallei (melioidosis)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cholera (Vibrio cholerae)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Clostridium botulinum toxin (botulism)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Coxiella burnetii (Q fever)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ebola virus hemorrhagic fever
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * E. coli O157:H7 (Escherichia coli)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Escherichia coli O157:H7 (E. coli)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Food safety threats (e.g.,Â _Salmonella_ Â species,Â _Escherichia coli_ Â O157:H7,Â _Shigella_ )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Francisella tularensisÂ (tularemia) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Facts About Tularemia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Diagnosis & Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Treatment & PEP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Lab Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Surveillance & Investigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Infection Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Glanders ( _Burkholderia mallei_ )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Lassa fever
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Marburg virus hemorrhagic fever
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Melioidosis ( _Burkholderia pseudomallei_ )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Plague ( _Yersinia pestis_ ) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FAQ About Plague (as a bioweapon)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Pneumonic Plague
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Plague Q & A (naturally occurring disease)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC Plague Home Page (naturally occurring disease)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Diagnosis & Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Infection Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Laboratory Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definitions and Report Forms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Surveillance & Investigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Publications, Education & Training Materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Q fever ( _Coxiella burnetii_ )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ricin toxin fromÂ _Ricinus communis_ Â (castor beans) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Ricin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Questions and Answers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Labs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Â species (salmonellosis)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Â Typhi (typhoid fever)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Salmonellosis ( _Salmonella_ Â species)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Shigella_ Â (shigellosis)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Shigellosis ( _Shigella_ )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Smallpox (variola major) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Smallpox Basics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Specific Topics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Clinicians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Health Officials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * People Selected for Response Teams
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Diagnosis/Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Lab Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Infection Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Surveillance & Investigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Preparation & Planning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Vaccination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Smallpox: Images
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Medical Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Smallpox: Training and Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * References
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tularemia ( _Francisella tularensis_ )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Typhoid fever ( _Salmonella_ Â Typhi)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Variola major (smallpox)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Vibrio cholerae_ Â (cholera)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Viral hemorrhagic fevers (filoviruses [e.g., Ebola, Marburg] and arenaviruses [e.g., Lassa, Machupo])
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Yersinia pestis_ Â (plague)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Case Definitions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Surveillance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Preparation & Planning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * First Responders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Lab Info
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Chemical Emergencies expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * A-Z  expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Abrin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Acids (caustics) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Caustic or Corrosive Agents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Adamsite (DM) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Adamsite Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ammonia expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Ammonia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Arsenic expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Arsenic (Inorganic)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Arsine (SA) or Stibine expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Arsine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Arsine or Stibine Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Toxic Syndrome Description: Arsine or Stibine Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Barium expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Barium Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Benzene expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts about Benzene
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Biotoxins
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Blister agents/vesicants expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Vesicant (Mustards, Dimethyl Sulfate, and Lewisite)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Toxic Syndrome Description: Vesicant/Blister Agent Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Blood agents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Brevetoxin expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Brevetoxin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Bromine (CA) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Bromine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Bromine Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * BZ expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: BZ Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Carbon Monoxide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Caustics (acids)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Choking/lung/pulmonary agents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Chlorine (CL) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Chlorine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Chlorine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Chromium
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Colchicine expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Colchicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cyanide expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Cyanide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Cyanide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cyanogen chloride (CK)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Digitalis expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Digitalis Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ethylene glycol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Fentanyls and other opioids expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Opioids (Fentanyl, Etorphine, or Others) Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hydrazine expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Potential Health Effects Associated with Hydrazine and Satellite Reentry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hydrofluoric acid (hydrogen fluoride) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts about Hydrogen Fluoride (Hydrofluoric Acid)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Hydrofluoric Acid
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Caustic or Corrosive Agents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hydrogen cyanide (AC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hydrogen fluoride (hydrofluoric acid) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts about Hydrogen Fluoride (Hydrofluoric Acid)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Hydrofluoric Acid
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Caustic or Corrosive Agents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Incapacitating agents expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * BZ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fentanyls & other opioids
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Lewisite (L, L-1, L-2, L-3) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Lewisite
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Vesicant (Mustards, Dimethyl Sulfate, and Lewisite)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Toxic Syndrome Description: Vesicant/Blister Agent Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Long-acting anticoagulant (super warfarin) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: âSuper Warfarinâ Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Lung/choking/pulmonary agents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mercury expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Mercury (Organic)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Mercury (Inorganic)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Mercury (Elemental)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Methyl bromide expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Methyl Bromide Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Methyl isocyanate expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Methyl Isocyanate Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mustard gas (H) (sulfur mustard) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Sulfur Mustard
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Vesicant (Mustards, Dimethyl Sulfate, and Lewisite)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Toxic Syndrome Description: Vesicant/Blister Agent Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Nerve agents expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Nerve Agents or Organophosphates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Toxic Syndrome Description: Nerve Agent and Organophosphate Pesticide Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sarin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Soman
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tabun
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * VX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Nicotine expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Nicotine Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Nitrogen mustard (HN-1, HN-2, HN-3) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Nitrogen Mustard
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Vesicant (Mustards, Dimethyl Sulfate, and Lewisite)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Toxic Syndrome Description: Vesicant/Blister Agent Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Opioids expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Opioids (Fentanyl, Etorphine, or Others) Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Organic solvents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Osmium tetroxide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Paraquat expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Paraquat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Paraquat Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Phosgene (CG) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Phosgene
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Phosgene
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Phosgene oxime (CX) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Phosgene Oxime
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Vesicant (Mustards, Dimethyl Sulfate, and Lewisite)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Toxic Syndrome Description: Vesicant/Blister Agent Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Phosphine expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Phosphine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Phosphorus, elemental, white or yellow expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Phosphorus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Potassium cyanide (KCN)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pulmonary/choking/lung agents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ricin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Riot control agents/tear gas expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Riot Control Agents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Riot Control Agent Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Toxic Syndrome Description: Riot Control Agent Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sarin (GB) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Sarin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Nerve Agents or Organophosphates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Saxitoxin expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Saxitoxin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Selenium
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sodium azide expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Sodium Azide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Sodium Azide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Toxic Syndrome Description: Sodium Azide Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sodium cyanide (NaCN)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sodium monofluoroacetate (compound 1080) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Sodium Monofluoroacetate Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Soman(GD) sulfurylfluoride expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Soman
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Nerve Agents or Organophosphates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Strychnine expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Strychnine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Strychnine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sulfur mustard (H) (mustard gas) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Sulfur Mustard
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Vesicant (Mustards, Dimethyl Sulfate, and Lewisite)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Toxic Syndrome Description: Vesicant/Blister Agent Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sulfuryl fluoride expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Sulfuryl Fluoride Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Super warfarin (long-acting anticoagulant) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: âSuper Warfarinâ Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tabun (GA) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Tabun
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Nerve Agents or Organophosphates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tetrodotoxin expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Tetrodotoxin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Thallium expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Thallium
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Toxic alcohols expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Toxic Alcohol Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ethylene glycol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Trichothecene expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Trichothecene Mycotoxin Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Unidentified chemical
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vesicants/blister agents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vomiting agents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * VX expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About VX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Nerve Agents or Organophosphates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * White phosphorus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * List by Category
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Chemical-Specific Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Toxicology FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Case Definitions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Toxic Syndrome Descriptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Toxicological Profiles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * First Responders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Medical Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emergency Response Cards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Lab Info
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Surveillance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Preparation & Planning

Social_govd govD  Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM

