https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/adults/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/adults/index.html    
                Description: CDC    
                Keywords: Adult immunization,  adults and immunization,  vaccines and adults,  adult vaccination,  Vaccines for Specific Groups,  Vaccination Records,  adult vaccine home page,  adult vaccination home page,  CDC adult vaccinations, Immunization    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search

Vaccines site

Vaccines site All CDC

Submit

For a full list of topics: All A-Z Topics

Vaccine Information for Adults

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email
                      * Syndicate

# There Are Vaccines You Need as an Adult

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

You may not realize that you need vaccines throughout your life. Adults need
to keep their vaccinations up to date because immunity from childhood vaccines
can wear off over time. You are also at risk for different diseases as an
adult. Vaccination is one of the most convenient and safest preventive care
measures available.

**All** adults need:

                      * Influenza (flu) vaccine every year
                      * Td or Tdap vaccine

**You may need other vaccines based on your age, health conditions, job,
lifestyle, or travel habits.** Learn more about what other vaccines may be
recommended for you and talk to your healthcare professional about which
vaccines are right for you.

Adults: Do You Know What Vaccines You Need?

Busy parents Mary Beth and Barckley Toole don't have time to get sick. Mary
Beth's doctor reminded them that adults need vaccines to help stay healthy -
just like kids do. Follow along to find out what vaccines are recommended for
adults. (3:02 mins)  
Also available on YouTube.

Find Out What Vaccines You Need

![Vaccines quiz](/vaccines/adults/images/home-adult-quiz.jpg)

Adults need vaccines too! Use the Adult Vaccine Self-Assessment Tool to find
out which vaccines you may need. Take your customized printout to your next
medical appointment.

Keep Track of Your Vaccinations

![Medical records](/vaccines/adults/images/medical-records.jpg)

Record vaccines you receive to make sure you have the best possible protection
against vaccine-preventable diseases.

Learn More about Adult Vaccines

![Resources](/vaccines/adults/images/resources-factsheets.jpg)

Resources to help you better understand vaccines recommended for adults and
why they are an important part of staying healthy.

Traveling Internationally?

![Medical records](/vaccines/adults/images/family-traveling.jpg)

Use CDC Travelers' Health website to find out if your destination recommends
or requires certain vaccines before you travel.

Reasons to Vaccinate

![Male doctor talking with female, smiling
patient](/vaccines/adults/images/doctor-patient-smiling.jpg)

Where to Find Vaccines

![Smartphone displaying interactive map](/vaccines/adults/images/smartphone-
map.jpg)

How to Pay for Vaccines

![smiling nurse talking with young couple](/vaccines/adults/images/smiling-
nurse-couple.jpg)

Page last reviewed: May 2, 2016

Content source: National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases

home Adult Vaccination Home

                      * Reasons to Vaccinate
                      * Recommended Vaccines for Adults expand
                        * Adults with Health Conditions expand
                          * Heart Disease and Stroke
                          * Diabetes Type 1 and 2
                          * Lung Disease and Asthma
                          * Asplenia
                          * HIV Infection
                          * Liver Disease
                          * Renal Disease
                          * Weakened Immune System
                        * Healthcare Workers
                        * International Travelers
                        * Immigrants and Refugees
                      * Where to Find Vaccines
                      * How to Pay for Vaccines
                      * Adult Vaccination Records
                      * Vaccine-Preventable Adult Diseases
                      * Resources

Related Links

                      * Vaccines & Immunizations
                      * Adult Immunization Schedule
                      * Pregnancy & Vaccination
                      * Vaccines: The Basics
                      * Adult Vaccination Resources for Healthcare Professionals

![Vaccines quiz](/vaccines/adults/images/adult-quiz.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                      * About CDC
                      * Jobs
                      * Funding
                      * Policies
                      * File Viewers & Players

                      * Privacy
                      * FOIA
                      * No Fear Act
                      * OIG
                      * Nondiscrimination
                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * Youtube
                      * Instagram
  

                      * Syndicate
                      * CDC TV
                      * RSS
                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

