https://emergency.cdc.gov/agent/sodiumazide/tsd.aspLink: https://emergency.cdc.gov/agent/sodiumazide/tsd.asp    
                Description: Information on terrorism and public health. Provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).    
                Keywords: bioterrorism,  biowarfare,  chemicalterrorism,  radiation,  radiological,  smallpox,  anthrax,  botulism,  plague,  tularemia,  viral,  hemorrhagic,  fevers,  abrin,  cyanide,  mustard,  gas,  ricin,  sarin,  VX,  preparation,  preparedness,  planning,  training,  response,  counteremergency,  emergencies,  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Sodium &amp; Salt Consumption    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Emergency Preparedness and Response

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Sodium Azide Poisoning

Minus

Related Pages

TOXIC SYNDROME DESCRIPTION

The purpose of this document is to help health care workers and public health
officials to recognize an unknown or suspected exposure to sodium azide.
Sodium azide is a rapidly acting, potentially lethal chemical that exists as
an odorless, white crystalline solid. It is used in automobile airbags to
produce inflation of the airbag upon impact; after deployment, sodium azide is
converted to nitrogen gas. Sodium azide is converted rapidly into hydrazoic
acid vapor upon contact with water or an acid. Like sodium azide, hydrozoic
acid is highly explosive. Similar to cyanide, sodium azide and hydrozoic acid
also interfere with cellular respiration and aerobic metabolism, preventing
the cells from using oxygen. The central nervous system and the cardiovascular
system are most sensitive to acute sodium azide poisoning.

The amount and route of the exposure to sodium azide and the premorbid
condition of the exposed person will contribute to the time of onset,
duration, and the severity of illness.

## Signs and symptoms of exposure

Following is a list of signs and symptoms that may be encountered in a person
exposed to sodium azide. Signs and symptoms are not listed in order of
importance, presentation or specificity. Also, partial presentations (an
absence of some of the following signs/symptoms) do not necessarily imply less
severe disease.

### _Central nervous system signs and symptoms_

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Agitation 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Coma 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Convulsions 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Dizziness 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Headache 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Loss of consciousness (sudden collapse) 

### _Respiratory signs and symptoms_

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Bradypnea (decreased respiratory rate) 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Chest pain 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Dyspnea (shortness of breath) 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Hyperpnea (increased respiratory rate/depth) 

###  _Cardiovascular signs and symptoms_

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Bradycardia (decreased heart rate)-- late 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Flushing 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Hypertension (high blood pressure)-- early 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Hypotension (low blood pressure)-- late 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tachycardia (increased heart rate)-- early 

###  _Gastrointestinal signs and symptoms_

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Abdominal pain 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nausea 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Vomiting 

###  _Other signs_

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Similar color of retinal arteries and veins 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Skin and eye irritation 

### _Laboratory findings suggestive of sodium azide poisoning_

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Metabolic acidosis 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Elevated anion gap 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Increased plasma lactate concentration 

###  _Differential diagnosis - poisoning with_

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Carbon monoxide 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cyanide 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ethylene glycol 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fluoroacetate 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Hydrogen sulfide 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Methanol 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Phosphine 

**Note:** The actual clinical manifestations of an exposure to sodium azide
may be more variable than the syndrome described in this document.

Page last reviewed: April 4, 2018

Content source: National Center for Environmental Health (NCEH)

home Specific Hazards

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Bioterrorism expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * A-Z expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Anthrax (Bacillus anthracis)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Arenaviruses expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Treatment & Infection Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Specimen Submission & Lab Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Education & Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Related Bioterrorism Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Bacillus anthracis (Anthrax)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Botulism (Clostridium botulinum toxin)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Brucella species (brucellocis) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Laboratory Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Surveillance & Investigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Burkholderia mallei (glanders)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Burkholderia pseudomallei (melioidosis)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cholera (Vibrio cholerae)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Clostridium botulinum toxin (botulism)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Coxiella burnetii (Q fever)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ebola virus hemorrhagic fever
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * E. coli O157:H7 (Escherichia coli)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Escherichia coli O157:H7 (E. coli)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Food safety threats (e.g.,Â _Salmonella_ Â species,Â _Escherichia coli_ Â O157:H7,Â _Shigella_ )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Francisella tularensisÂ (tularemia) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Facts About Tularemia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Diagnosis & Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Treatment & PEP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Lab Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Surveillance & Investigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Infection Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Glanders ( _Burkholderia mallei_ )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Lassa fever
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Marburg virus hemorrhagic fever
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Melioidosis ( _Burkholderia pseudomallei_ )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Plague ( _Yersinia pestis_ ) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FAQ About Plague (as a bioweapon)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Pneumonic Plague
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Plague Q & A (naturally occurring disease)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC Plague Home Page (naturally occurring disease)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Diagnosis & Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Infection Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Laboratory Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definitions and Report Forms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Surveillance & Investigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Publications, Education & Training Materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Q fever ( _Coxiella burnetii_ )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ricin toxin fromÂ _Ricinus communis_ Â (castor beans) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Ricin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Questions and Answers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Labs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Â species (salmonellosis)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Â Typhi (typhoid fever)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Salmonellosis ( _Salmonella_ Â species)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Shigella_ Â (shigellosis)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Shigellosis ( _Shigella_ )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Smallpox (variola major) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Smallpox Basics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Specific Topics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Clinicians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Health Officials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * People Selected for Response Teams
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Diagnosis/Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Lab Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Infection Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Surveillance & Investigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Preparation & Planning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Vaccination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Smallpox: Images
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Medical Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Smallpox: Training and Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * References
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tularemia ( _Francisella tularensis_ )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Typhoid fever ( _Salmonella_ Â Typhi)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Variola major (smallpox)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Vibrio cholerae_ Â (cholera)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Viral hemorrhagic fevers (filoviruses [e.g., Ebola, Marburg] and arenaviruses [e.g., Lassa, Machupo])
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Yersinia pestis_ Â (plague)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Case Definitions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Surveillance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Preparation & Planning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * First Responders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Lab Info
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Chemical Emergencies expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * A-Z  expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Abrin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Acids (caustics) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Caustic or Corrosive Agents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Adamsite (DM) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Adamsite Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ammonia expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Ammonia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Arsenic expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Arsenic (Inorganic)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Arsine (SA) or Stibine expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Arsine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Arsine or Stibine Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Toxic Syndrome Description: Arsine or Stibine Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Barium expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Barium Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Benzene expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts about Benzene
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Biotoxins
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Blister agents/vesicants expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Vesicant (Mustards, Dimethyl Sulfate, and Lewisite)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Toxic Syndrome Description: Vesicant/Blister Agent Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Blood agents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Brevetoxin expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Brevetoxin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Bromine (CA) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Bromine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Bromine Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * BZ expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: BZ Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Carbon Monoxide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Caustics (acids)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Choking/lung/pulmonary agents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Chlorine (CL) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Chlorine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Chlorine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Chromium
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Colchicine expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Colchicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cyanide expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Cyanide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Cyanide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cyanogen chloride (CK)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Digitalis expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Digitalis Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ethylene glycol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Fentanyls and other opioids expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Opioids (Fentanyl, Etorphine, or Others) Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hydrazine expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Potential Health Effects Associated with Hydrazine and Satellite Reentry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hydrofluoric acid (hydrogen fluoride) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts about Hydrogen Fluoride (Hydrofluoric Acid)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Hydrofluoric Acid
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Caustic or Corrosive Agents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hydrogen cyanide (AC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hydrogen fluoride (hydrofluoric acid) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts about Hydrogen Fluoride (Hydrofluoric Acid)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Hydrofluoric Acid
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Caustic or Corrosive Agents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Incapacitating agents expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * BZ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fentanyls & other opioids
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Lewisite (L, L-1, L-2, L-3) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Lewisite
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Vesicant (Mustards, Dimethyl Sulfate, and Lewisite)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Toxic Syndrome Description: Vesicant/Blister Agent Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Long-acting anticoagulant (super warfarin) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: âSuper Warfarinâ Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Lung/choking/pulmonary agents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mercury expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Mercury (Organic)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Mercury (Inorganic)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Mercury (Elemental)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Methyl bromide expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Methyl Bromide Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Methyl isocyanate expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Methyl Isocyanate Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mustard gas (H) (sulfur mustard) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Sulfur Mustard
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Vesicant (Mustards, Dimethyl Sulfate, and Lewisite)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Toxic Syndrome Description: Vesicant/Blister Agent Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Nerve agents expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Nerve Agents or Organophosphates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Toxic Syndrome Description: Nerve Agent and Organophosphate Pesticide Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sarin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Soman
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tabun
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * VX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Nicotine expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Nicotine Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Nitrogen mustard (HN-1, HN-2, HN-3) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Nitrogen Mustard
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Vesicant (Mustards, Dimethyl Sulfate, and Lewisite)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Toxic Syndrome Description: Vesicant/Blister Agent Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Opioids expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Opioids (Fentanyl, Etorphine, or Others) Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Organic solvents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Osmium tetroxide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Paraquat expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Paraquat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Paraquat Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Phosgene (CG) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Phosgene
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Phosgene
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Phosgene oxime (CX) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Phosgene Oxime
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Vesicant (Mustards, Dimethyl Sulfate, and Lewisite)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Toxic Syndrome Description: Vesicant/Blister Agent Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Phosphine expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Phosphine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Phosphorus, elemental, white or yellow expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Phosphorus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Potassium cyanide (KCN)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pulmonary/choking/lung agents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ricin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Riot control agents/tear gas expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Riot Control Agents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Riot Control Agent Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Toxic Syndrome Description: Riot Control Agent Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sarin (GB) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Sarin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Nerve Agents or Organophosphates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Saxitoxin expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Saxitoxin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Selenium
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sodium azide expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Sodium Azide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Sodium Azide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Toxic Syndrome Description: Sodium Azide Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sodium cyanide (NaCN)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sodium monofluoroacetate (compound 1080) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Sodium Monofluoroacetate Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Soman(GD) sulfurylfluoride expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Soman
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Nerve Agents or Organophosphates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Strychnine expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Strychnine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Strychnine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sulfur mustard (H) (mustard gas) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Sulfur Mustard
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Vesicant (Mustards, Dimethyl Sulfate, and Lewisite)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Toxic Syndrome Description: Vesicant/Blister Agent Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sulfuryl fluoride expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Sulfuryl Fluoride Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Super warfarin (long-acting anticoagulant) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: âSuper Warfarinâ Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tabun (GA) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About Tabun
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Nerve Agents or Organophosphates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tetrodotoxin expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Tetrodotoxin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Thallium expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Thallium
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Toxic alcohols expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Toxic Alcohol Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ethylene glycol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Trichothecene expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Trichothecene Mycotoxin Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Unidentified chemical
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vesicants/blister agents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vomiting agents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * VX expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts About VX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition: Nerve Agents or Organophosphates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * White phosphorus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * List by Category
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Chemical-Specific Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Toxicology FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Case Definitions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Toxic Syndrome Descriptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Toxicological Profiles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * First Responders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Medical Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emergency Response Cards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Lab Info
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Surveillance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Preparation & Planning

Social_govd govD  Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM

