https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/adults/rec-vac/immigrants-refugees.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/adults/rec-vac/immigrants-refugees.html    
                Description: Information about recommended vaccines for immigrants and refugees as well as vaccination and international adoption.    
                Keywords: Adult immunization,  refugee immunization,  immigrant immunization,  refugee vaccination,  immigrant vaccination,  vaccines and immigrants,  vaccines and refugees,  adult vaccination,  Recommended Vaccines for Adults,  vaccination programs for refugees, Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP), Immunization    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search

Vaccines site

Vaccines site All CDC

Submit

For a full list of topics: All A-Z Topics

Vaccine Information for Adults

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email
                      * Syndicate

# Vaccines for Immigrants and Refugees

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                      * Vaccination for Immigrants
                      * Vaccination for Refugees
                      * Vaccination and International Adoption

Refugees and immigrants seeking admission into the U.S. are required to have a
medical examination.

During the medical examination, a healthcare professional checks for specific
diseases and assesses immunization status. The healthcare professional may run
blood tests to find out which vaccines the refugee or immigrant may need. For
more information, see Medical Examination of Immigrants and Refugees.

## Vaccination for Immigrants

![Amina with her two children Mohamed and Sundes. Twelve years after fleeing
her homeland of Somalia, she is settling into a permanent
home.](/vaccines/adults/images/somalia-refugees.jpg)

Amina with her two children Mohamed and Sundes. Twelve years after fleeing her
homeland of Somalia, she is settling into a permanent home.

Persons applying for an immigrant visa overseas and persons applying for legal
permanent residence within the United States (known as status adjustment) are
required to provide proof of vaccinations as a part of the medical examination
process. If they do not already have proof, they must begin vaccination
according to the CDC Vaccine Technical Instructions for the overseas exam or
adjustment of status examination. The vaccination schedules in the Technical
instructions are based on immunization schedules recommended by the Advisory
Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP).

For answers to questions about immunization and immigration, see Vaccination
Criteria for U.S. Immigration.

For resources to support immunization and healthcare of immigrants, contact
the state health department where the immigrants will settle.



## Vaccination for Refugees

Although refugees are not required to have vaccinations before arrival in the
United States, CDC, in collaboration with the Department of State, developed a
Vaccination Program for U.S.-bound Refugees, which started in 2013 and is in
the process of expansion. The program is implemented by the International
Organization for Migration, and other international partners.  The goals of
this program are to improve the health of refugees before and during travel,
to reduce the risk of vaccine-preventable disease outbreaks, and to expedite
school entry for children after arrival. As part of this program, refugees
start the series of certain ACIP-recommended vaccinations during their
overseas medical examination, **before** travel to the United States.

After one year in the US, refugees can apply for a change of status to that of
legal permanent resident. At that time, they will be required to be fully
vaccinated in accordance with CDC Technical Instructions for the status
adjustment medical examination. Refugee vaccinations **after arrival** in the
United States are paid for by various domestic agencies, including state and
local health departments, MedicaidExternal, the federal Vaccines for Children
Program, and the Refugee Medical Assistance program of the U.S. Department of
Health and Human Services' Office of Refugee ResettlementExternal.

For resources to support immunization and healthcare of refugees, contact the
state health department where the refugees will settle.

You can also find guidelines on Evaluating and Updating Immunizations during
the Domestic Medical Examination for Newly Arrived Refugees.



## Vaccination and International Adoption

Children entering the United States as adoptees are considered immigrants
under immigration law. So, they must also provide proof of vaccination during
the overseas medical examination. However, for adoptees 10 years of age and
under, immigration law allows for their adoptive parents to sign an affidavit
stating they will be vaccinated after arrival to the United States. For
information on the medical examination process for adoptees, see International
Adoption: Health Guidance and the Immigration Process.

 Top of Page

### Resources

                      * Current Vaccination Criteria for U.S. Immigration Cdc-pdf[1 page]
                      * Translation of foreign-language immunization records Cdc-pdf[18 pages]
                      * Vaccine-preventable disease terms in multiple languages Cdc-pdf[2 pages]External

Page last reviewed: March 27, 2019

Content source: National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases

home Adult Vaccination Home

                      * Reasons to Vaccinate
                      * Recommended Vaccines for Adults expand
                        * Adults with Health Conditions expand
                          * Heart Disease and Stroke
                          * Diabetes Type 1 and 2
                          * Lung Disease and Asthma
                          * Asplenia
                          * HIV Infection
                          * Liver Disease
                          * Renal Disease
                          * Weakened Immune System
                        * Healthcare Workers
                        * International Travelers
                        * Immigrants and Refugees
                      * Where to Find Vaccines
                      * How to Pay for Vaccines
                      * Adult Vaccination Records
                      * Vaccine-Preventable Adult Diseases
                      * Resources

Related Links

                      * Vaccines & Immunizations
                      * Adult Immunization Schedule
                      * Pregnancy & Vaccination
                      * Vaccines: The Basics
                      * Adult Vaccination Resources for Healthcare Professionals

![Vaccines quiz](/vaccines/adults/images/adult-quiz.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                      * About CDC
                      * Jobs
                      * Funding
                      * Policies
                      * File Viewers & Players

                      * Privacy
                      * FOIA
                      * No Fear Act
                      * OIG
                      * Nondiscrimination
                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * Youtube
                      * Instagram
  

                      * Syndicate
                      * CDC TV
                      * RSS
                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

