https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/vac-gen/vaxwithme.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/vac-gen/vaxwithme.html    
                Description: Vaccines protect you and your family. Things you need to know about vaccines and vaccine-preventable diseases. VaxWithMe    
                Keywords: vaccine,  immunization,  protection,  preventable disease,  outbreak,  vaxwithme,  pregnant,  baby,  child,  adult, Immunization    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search

Vaccines site

Vaccines site All CDC

Submit

For a full list of topics: All A-Z Topics

Vaccines & Immunizations

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email
                      * Syndicate

# Six Things YOU Need to Know about Vaccines

Minus

Related Pages

1\. We all need vaccines throughout our lives to help protect against serious
diseases.

![Vaccines protect you and your family.  Vaxwithme](/vaccines/vac-
gen/images/vaxwithme.jpg)

Every year, tens of thousands of Americans get sick from diseases that could
be prevented by vaccines - some people are hospitalized, some even die.
Immunization is our best protection against these diseases. Vaccines are
recommended for children, teens, and adults based on different factors like
age, health conditions, lifestyle, jobs, and travel. CDC and other medical
experts update vaccine recommendations every year based on the latest research
and science. Vaccination is a critical step in protecting those that are most
vulnerable to illness - infants and young children, the elderly, and those
with chronic conditions and weakened immune systems.

2\. Outbreaks of vaccine-preventable diseases can and do still happen in
communities across the U.S.

Get Vaccinated and Prevent Measles

Vaccines have greatly reduced infectious diseases that once regularly harmed
or killed many infants, children, and adults. However, the germs that cause
vaccine-preventable disease still exist and can be spread to people who are
not protected by vaccines. For example, even though measles was declared to be
eliminated from the U.S. in 2000, it is still common in other countries.
Unvaccinated travelers have gotten measles while abroad spread the disease to
others in the U.S. when they have returned, leading to a number of outbreaks
in recent years.

Vaccination is important because it not only protects the person who gets the
vaccine, but also helps to keep diseases from spreading to others, like family
members, neighbors, classmates, and other members of your communities.

3\. CDC and FDA take many steps to make sure vaccines are very safe.

![The Journey of Your Child's Vaccine
infographic](/vaccines/parents/infographics/images/journey-of-child-vaccine-
fda-h.png)

Journey of a Vaccine

Before a vaccine is approved for use in the U.S., it goes through years of
careful testing to make sure it is safe and effective. Highly trained
scientists and doctors at the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) evaluate
the results of these clinical studies. FDA also inspects the sites where
vaccines are made to make sure they follow strict manufacturing guidelines.
Once a vaccine is licensed, FDA and CDC continue to monitor its use and make
sure there are no safety concerns.

Like any medication, vaccines can cause side effects. In most cases, side
effects are mild (e.g., soreness where the shot was given) but go away within
a few days. Severe, long-lasting side effects from vaccines are rare.

4\. Vaccines give you the power to protect your children from getting sick.

![Diverse Children Going to Elementary school.](/vaccines/vac-
gen/images/children-elementary-school.jpg)

Protect your child at every age

Immunization has had an enormous impact on improving the health of children in
the United States. Most parents today have never seen first-hand the
devastating consequences that vaccine-preventable diseases have on a child, a
family, or community. Protecting your child's health and safety is very
important. That's why most parents choose immunization -- it's a powerful
defense that's safe, proven, and effective.

Vaccination is one of the best ways parents can protect infants, children, and
teens from 16 potentially harmful diseases. Vaccine-preventable diseases can
be very serious, may require hospitalization, or even be deadly -- especially
in infants and young children. To see if your child is up-to-date, visit our
parents' page and talk to your doctor.

5\. You can even make sure your baby is born with protection by getting
vaccinated when you are pregnant.

![Pregnant woman holding baby boots](/vaccines/vac-gen/images/pregnant-woman-
baby-boots.jpg)

Take the Vaccines & Pregnancy Quiz

You probably know that when you are pregnant, you share everything with your
baby. That means when you get vaccinated, you aren't just protecting yourself
--you are passing some protection on to your baby in the first few months of
life when they are too young to build immunity on their own. CDC recommends
you get whooping cough and flu vaccines during each pregnancy to help protect
yourself and your developing baby. For more information you can visit our
maternal vaccination page and talk to your doctor at your next appointment.

6\. Vaccines aren't just for kids. They can help adults stay healthy too -
especially if they have health conditions.

![Quiz](/vaccines/hcp/adults/web-buttons/images/btn-adultquiz-180x150.jpg)

Even if you got all your vaccines as a child, the protection from some
vaccines can wear off over time. You may also be at risk for other diseases
due to your age, job, lifestyle, travel, or health conditions. Adults with
chronic conditions like asthma/COPD, heart disease, and diabetes are more
likely to get complications from certain diseases. Vaccination is an important
part of staying healthy. Getting sick is not fun at any age - and for adults
it can mean medical bills, missed work, and not being able to take care of
family.

Take this quick quiz to find out what vaccines may be recommended for you -
and discuss the results with your healthcare professional to make sure you are
up to date!

Related Pages

                      * Vaccines for Pregnant Women Quiz
                      * Put Vaccination on Your Back-To-School List
                      * For Parents: Vaccines for Your Children

Top of Page

Page last reviewed: May 16, 2018

Content source: National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases

home Vaccines and Immunizations Home

                      * For Parents
                      * For Adults
                      * For Pregnant Women
                      * For Healthcare Professionals
                      * For Immunization Managers
                      * For Specific Groups of People
                      * Basics and Common Questions expand
                        * Things You Need to Know about Vaccines
                        * Immunization: Why is it Important?
                        * Immunization: The Basics
                        * Common Questions
                      * Vaccines and Preventable Diseases expand
                        * Vaccines: The Basics
                        * FAQs about Vaccines and Diseases They Prevent
                      * News and Media Resources expand
                        * News
                        * Newsletters
                        * Events

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                      * About CDC
                      * Jobs
                      * Funding
                      * Policies
                      * File Viewers & Players

                      * Privacy
                      * FOIA
                      * No Fear Act
                      * OIG
                      * Nondiscrimination
                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * Youtube
                      * Instagram
  

                      * Syndicate
                      * CDC TV
                      * RSS
                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

