https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/heartdefects/features/heart-defect-care.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/heartdefects/features/heart-defect-care.html    
                Description: People with congenital heart defects (CHD) are now living longer, healthier lives. Read about one manâs story of living with a CHD.    
                Keywords: CDC Features,  heart defects,  birth defects, Congenital Heart Defects, Diseases &amp; Conditions A-Z Index    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Congenital Heart Defects (CHDs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Living with a Heart Defect

Minus

Related Pages

![Three teenage girls smiling](/ncbddd/heartdefects/features/images/woman-
heart-sign-hands.jpg)

**Congenital heart defects are present at birth and can affect the structure
of a person 's heart and its ability to work properly. As medical care and
treatment have advanced, people with heart defects are living longer and
healthier lives, many into adulthood. Learn about heart defects and about
Mary, an adult living with a heart defect. You can also learn what CDC is
doing to improve the lives of people with heart defects.**

### What Are Heart Defects?

Heart defects are present at birth and can affect the structure of a person's
heart and its ability to work properly. They can also affect how blood flows
through the heart to the rest of the body. Heart defects can vary from mild
(such as a small hole in the heart) to severe (such as missing or poorly
formed parts of the heart).

Some affected people might need one or more surgeries on the heart or blood
vessels. It is important to note that even with these treatments, many people
with heart defects are not cured, as heart defects are lifelong conditions. As
a person with a heart defect grows and gets older, further heart problems may
occur.

### How Many People Are Born with Heart Defects?

Heart defects are the most common type of birth defect, affecting nearly 1% of
births - or about 40,000 births - per year in the United States.1,2 It is
estimated that more than two million people in the United States are living
with heart defects.3

Mary's Story -- In Her Own Words

![Mary Rouzer](/ncbddd/birthdefects/stories/images/mary-rouzer.jpeg)

**Mary was born with multiple congenital heart defects. As a Doctor of Nursing
Practice, she wants to empower her patients to take an active role in their
health. Read her story below.**

I was born in 1991. My mom had a normal pregnancy, and I seemed to be a
healthy baby. My dad, a medical residency student at the time, anxious to hear
my heartbeat, heard a heart murmur and called a pediatric cardiologist. I was
diagnosed with hypoplastic right heart syndrome, atrial septal defect,
transposition of the great vessels, and isthmus coarctation of the aorta. This
combination of defects in one baby is incredibly rare.  I was admitted to the
neonatal intensive care unit (NICU), and at 9 days old, I had my first open
heart surgery. I would go on to have three more surgeries by the time I was 2
years old.

From ages 2 through 15 years, I remained relatively healthy. I had routine
checkups with my pediatric cardiologist that included regular echocardiograms
and electrocardiograms. I would sometimes have to wear a Holter monitor, a
device that measures and records the heart's activity, while enduring stress
tests. This was my normal.

When I was 15 years old, I learned I would need a pacemaker and defibrillator
because my heart rate was too slow, causing me to feel fatigued and out of
breath easily. Shortly after I turned 16 years old, I had surgery to place my
pacemaker and defibrillator in my abdomen. One month after surgery, I went to
my high school junior prom with my date, who would, years later, become my
husband.

Receiving a pacemaker/defibrillator as a teenager was frightening. I thought,
"I'm dying," because I only knew of older individuals having pacemakers.
Having a pacemaker restricted me from jumping on a trampoline, riding
rollercoasters, and riding horses, but these were things that I could live
without doing.

Due to the pacemaker/defibrillator, my doctors increased the number of
medications I was taking. Although my pacemaker was helping to regulate my
heartbeat, I was still having irregular heartbeats. I needed medication to
help my heart function properly.

The defibrillator was placed to help shock my heart back into rhythm if it
slowed down or stopped beating. I remember asking the nurse practitioner that
set up my pacemaker/defibrillator to describe the feeling of being shocked.
She told me, "like getting kicked by a donkey." I had never been kicked by a
donkey, and had no intention of experiencing it.

Unfortunately, I was shocked two separate times after they set up my
pacemaker/defibrillator. The first time was 2 months after having my
pacemaker/defibrillator placed. My settings were wrong, but this was no fault
of the doctors. Setting these devices is often trial and error. Every single
person is different, and they set the pacemaker/defibrillator for what a
person of your age and condition would typically use. This may not be what you
need. The second time I was shocked, I was home alone after attending nursing
school that day, and my device shocked me multiple times. I was able to call
911 and crawl to the door to let the paramedics in. This occurred the day
before my first day of nursing school clinical work, of which I was required
to attend. My dad drove me to the hospital because I wasn't allowed to drive
so soon after being shocked. When I walked in, the instructor looked at me as
if she saw a ghost. I eventually graduated, and went on to become a Doctor of
Nursing Practice (DNP).

Given my experiences, I understand what it's like to be a patient, which has
helped me as a nurse. I learned to become an advocate for my own health. I
want to empower my patients to take an active role in their health and become
advocates for themselves, too. I love educating people and spreading
awareness, and being a nurse practitioner allows me to do that.

I got married shortly after receiving my DNP. I met my husband when we were in
high school, so he has been through a lot with me. While we were dating, I
made the decision to have my tubes tied because pregnancy can be risky for
some women with heart defects. Before we got married, I wanted to make sure my
husband was okay with this decision. We both agreed that adoption or surrogacy
were options we were open to considering if we wanted to have children in the
future. For now, we have two lively and loveable dog-babies, Brindle and
Rogan.

### CDC Activities on Heart Defects Across the Lifespan

As medical care and treatment have advanced, people with heart defects are
living longer and healthier lives, many into adulthood. This remarkable
progress presents new challenges to meet the special needs of this group of
people. CDC is working to learn more about people living with heart defects
and to identify strategies to improve their health.

More Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC's Birth Defects Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC's Heart Defects Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC's Critical Congenital Heart Defects Information

References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1. Hoffman JL, Kaplan S. The incidence of congenital heart disease. _J Am Coll Cardiol._ 2002;39(12):1890-1900.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2. Reller MD, Strickland MJ, Riehle-Colarusso T, Mahle WT, Correa A. Prevalence of congenital heart defects in metropolitan Atlanta, 1998-2005. _J Pediatr._ 2008;153:807-13.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3. Gilboa SM, Devine OJ, Kucik JE, et al. Congenital heart defects in the United States: Estimating the magnitude of the affected population in 2010. _Circulation_. 2016;134(2):101-9.

Page last reviewed: February 3, 2020

Content source: ï»¿ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Congenital Heart Defects Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What are CHDsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * How the Heart Works
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Critical Congenital Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Screening
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Current Research Activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Information for Healthcare Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Specific Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Atrial Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Atrioventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Coarctation of the Aorta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * D-Transposition of the Great Arteries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Pulmonary Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Tetralogy of Fallot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Return
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Tricuspid Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Truncus Arteriosus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Ventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Living with a CHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tracking & Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Articles & Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Living with a Heart Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Free Materialsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Tracking and Research Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CHD Tracking and Research Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 10 Years of Improving Understanding of CHDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Multimedia and Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * A Heart-To-Heart Chat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Real Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Links to Other Resources

Information For…

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policy Makers



**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM

