https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/fasd/choices-faq.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/fasd/choices-faq.html    
                Description: FAQS about CHOICES, a program that prevents alcohol-exposed pregnancies by working with women who are drinking at risky levels &amp;  who may become pregnant    
                Keywords: fasd,  CHOICES,  Prevent Alcohol-Exposed Pregnancies,  Alcohol-Exposed Pregnancies,  CDC, Pregnancy, Alcohol, Fetal Alcohol Syndrome (FAS)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders (FASDs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email
                      * Syndicate

# CHOICES Frequently Asked Questions

Minus

Related Pages

Below are some frequently asked questions about CHOICES.

##### What makes CHOICES unique?

CHOICES prevents alcohol-exposed pregnancies by working with women who are
drinking at risky levels and who may become pregnant. CHOICES is unique in
several ways:

                      * It focuses on the period before women become pregnant. Women may not know that they are pregnant until well into the first trimester (first three months of pregnancy). Therefore, if they are drinking, harm to their baby may have already occurred.
                      * It uses a dual-focused approach that addresses both alcohol use and contraception.

##### Who is eligible for CHOICES?

CHOICES is for women 18-44 years old who are:

                      * Drinking alcohol at risky levels 
                        * more than three drinks (or four or more) on an occasion, and/or
                        * more than seven drinks in a week
                      * Able to become pregnant (no hysterectomy, menopause, sterilization, etc.)
                      * Not trying to get pregnant
                      * Not using contraception at all or in a way that effectively prevents pregnancy

##### Can CHOICES be used with women who are pregnant or trying to become
pregnant?

No. Women who are pregnant or trying to get pregnant are advised that there is
no known safe level of drinking during pregnancy. There are other
interventions to help pregnant women stop drinking.

##### Is the family planning visit essential?

Yes. The program gives women a choice between reducing or stopping drinking
and/or using effective contraception to reduce their risk for an alcohol-
exposed pregnancy. It is essential that contraceptive services be made
available for women participating in the program. Clinics without on-site
contraceptive care services can link with external providers.

##### Can CHOICES be used with teens?

Although it was not tested with teens younger than age 18, some programs are
doing so. Some key considerations are:

                      * Your program's guidelines about discussing alcohol use with underage females
                      * Sexual relations between underage teens and older boys or men may be a reportable crime in your state.

You need to:

                      * Know your reporting responsibilities
                      * Inform clients of your need to report sexual or drinking behavior

##### How can I implement CHOICES when some healthcare providers in my
community tell their patients it is "okay" to drink during pregnancy?

The message that it is "okay" to drink during pregnancy is one that you will
need to address through education of providers in your community. Communicate
to them that the U.S. Surgeon General and major health professional
associations, such as the American College of Obstetricians and
Gynecologistspdf iconexternal icon, state that women should not drink alcohol
at any time while pregnant. Make sure that your family planning referral
source is up-to-date on these issues and will support the messages given
through the CHOICES program.

Page last reviewed: March 29, 2019

Content source: ï»¿ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home FASD Homepage

                      * Basicsplus icon
                        * Secondary Conditions
                      * Alcohol Use in Pregnancyplus icon
                        * Questions & Answers
                        * Quiz
                      * Interventionsplus icon
                        * Alcohol Screening & Brief Intervention
                        * CHOICES: Preventing Alcohol-Exposed Pregnanciesplus icon
                          * CHOICES as a Strategy
                          * Implementing CHOICES
                          * Frequently Asked Questions
                          * Resources
                          * Articles
                      * Diagnosis
                      * Treatments
                      * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                        * State-Level Estimates 2016
                      * Research & Trackingplus icon
                        * Monitoring Alcohol Use
                        * International Research
                      * Training & Educationplus icon
                        * Online Training
                      * Articles & Key Findingsplus icon
                        * Living with FASD: Brenna
                        * Online Trainings on Alcohol-Free Pregnancy
                        * FASD Awareness
                        * Advise about Risky Alcohol Use
                        * Teen Substance Use & Risks
                      * Materials & Multimediaplus icon
                        * Fact Sheets & Brochures
                        * Posters & Print Ads
                        * Infographicsplus icon
                          * 5 Steps for Alcohol Screening and Counseling
                          * Alcohol Use During Pregnancy
                        * Videos & Podcasts
                        * Widgets
                        * Guidelines & Training
                      * My Story
                      * Information for Specific Groupsplus icon
                        * Women
                        * Families
                        * Healthcare Providers
                        * Educators
                        * Partnersplus icon
                          * Tools Â for Partners
                      * Links to Other Websites
                      * About Us

More CDC Alcohol Topics

                      * CDC Alcohol Portal
                      * Excessive Alcohol Use
                      * Binge Drinking
                      * Drinking & Driving 
                      * Underage Drinking
                      * Alcohol & Pregnancy

Learn more about the FASD Competency-Based Curriculum Development Guide for
Medical and Allied Health Education and  
Practice

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                      * About CDC
                      * Jobs
                      * Funding
                      * Policies
                      * File Viewers & Players

                      * Privacy
                      * FOIA
                      * No Fear Act
                      * OIG
                      * Nondiscrimination
                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * Youtube
                      * Instagram
  

                      * Syndicate
                      * CDC TV
                      * RSS
                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

