https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/fasd/families.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/fasd/families.html    
                Description: This section of our website has tools and information about fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASDs) for families.    
                Keywords: fasd,  FASDs,  fetal alcohol syndrome,  fetal alcohol spectrum disorders,  pregnancy,  drinking and pregnancy,  FAS,  alcohol and pregnancy,  CDC, Asthma, Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders (FASDs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email
                      * Syndicate

# FASDs: Information for Families

Minus

Related Pages

This section of our website has tools and information about fetal alcohol
spectrum disorders (FASDs) for families.

Facts about FASDs Learn basic information about FASDs, including symptoms,
diagnosis, and treatment options.

Diagnosis See an overview of the guidelines for diagnosing fetal alcohol
syndrome (FAS).

Treatments Learn about various treatment options for FASDs, including early
intervention, protective factors, medication, behavior and education therapy,
parent training, and alternative approaches.

![family sitting for picture](/ncbddd/fasd/images/family-sitting-for-
picture.jpg)

Alcohol and Pregnancy Find out how drinking alcohol during pregnancy can cause
miscarriage, stillbirth, and a range of lifelong disorders, known as fetal
alcohol spectrum disorders (FASDs).

If Someone Special is Having a Babypdf iconexternal icon If you're a partner -
or relative, or special friend - and the mother-to-be drinks alcohol, there
are things you can do to help. View and print this fact sheet with tips for
how to help the mother have a healthy baby.

Materials  View, print, and order materials about drinking alcohol during
pregnancy:

Milestones Your child should reach milestones in how he plays, learns, speaks
and acts. A delay in any of these areas could be a sign of a developmental
problem, even an FASD. Visit our webpage to see milestones that children
should reach from 3 months to 5 years of age, plus interactive tools to help
keep track of the milestones.

Watch This Video

See one family's story about living with FASDs.

Strategies for Daily Livingexternal icon Find characteristics to look for at
various ages and tips for daily living from the National Organization on Fetal
Alcohol Syndrome (NOFAS).

Reach to Teach: Educating Elementary and Middle School Children with Fetal
Alcohol Spectrum Disordersexternal icon A resource for parents and teachers to
use in educating elementary and middle school children with FASDs. The booklet
provides a basic introduction to FASDs, and provides tools to enhance
communication between parents and teachers about schedules, strategies, and
problem-solving. This resource was developed by the Substance Abuse and Mental
Health Services Administration, FASD Center for Excellence.

Links to Other Websites Find more information and resources on FASDs for
families from other organizations, including referral sources for treatment
services, support networks, health insurance, and more.

Related Pages

                      * Learn the Signs. Act Early. Campaign
                      * Healthy Pregnancy
                      * Developmental Disabilities
                      * Birth Defects
                      * Alcohol and Public Health
                      * CDC's National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities

Page last reviewed: November 6, 2018

Content source: ï»¿ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home FASD Homepage

                      * Basicsplus icon
                        * Secondary Conditions
                      * Alcohol Use in Pregnancyplus icon
                        * Questions & Answers
                        * Quiz
                      * Interventionsplus icon
                        * Alcohol Screening & Brief Intervention
                        * CHOICES: Preventing Alcohol-Exposed Pregnanciesplus icon
                          * CHOICES as a Strategy
                          * Implementing CHOICES
                          * Frequently Asked Questions
                          * Resources
                          * Articles
                      * Diagnosis
                      * Treatments
                      * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                        * State-Level Estimates 2016
                      * Research & Trackingplus icon
                        * Monitoring Alcohol Use
                        * International Research
                      * Training & Educationplus icon
                        * Online Training
                      * Articles & Key Findingsplus icon
                        * Living with FASD: Brenna
                        * Online Trainings on Alcohol-Free Pregnancy
                        * FASD Awareness
                        * Advise about Risky Alcohol Use
                        * Teen Substance Use & Risks
                      * Materials & Multimediaplus icon
                        * Fact Sheets & Brochures
                        * Posters & Print Ads
                        * Infographicsplus icon
                          * 5 Steps for Alcohol Screening and Counseling
                          * Alcohol Use During Pregnancy
                        * Videos & Podcasts
                        * Widgets
                        * Guidelines & Training
                      * My Story
                      * Information for Specific Groupsplus icon
                        * Women
                        * Families
                        * Healthcare Providers
                        * Educators
                        * Partnersplus icon
                          * Tools Â for Partners
                      * Links to Other Websites
                      * About Us

More CDC Alcohol Topics

                      * CDC Alcohol Portal
                      * Excessive Alcohol Use
                      * Binge Drinking
                      * Drinking & Driving 
                      * Underage Drinking
                      * Alcohol & Pregnancy

Learn more about the FASD Competency-Based Curriculum Development Guide for
Medical and Allied Health Education and  
Practice

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                      * About CDC
                      * Jobs
                      * Funding
                      * Policies
                      * File Viewers & Players

                      * Privacy
                      * FOIA
                      * No Fear Act
                      * OIG
                      * Nondiscrimination
                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * Youtube
                      * Instagram
  

                      * Syndicate
                      * CDC TV
                      * RSS
                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

