https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/Link: https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/    
                Description: CDC - Blogs - The Topic Is Cancer - Perspectives on a variety of cancer-related topics, hosted by CDC    
                Keywords: cancer, colon cancer, colorectal cancer, screening tests    
                            

Skip directly to search Skip directly to A to Z list Skip directly to
navigation Skip directly to page options Skip directly to site content

![Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People](/TemplatePackage/3.0/images/masthead_subpage.svg)
![Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People](/TemplatePackage/3.0/images/masthead_1-col.svg)

Start of Search Controls

Search Form Controls

TOPIC ONLY

Search The CDC

cancel submit

CDC A-Z Index

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * MENU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC A-Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * SEARCH

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * #

Start of Search Controls

Search Form Controls

TOPIC ONLY

Search The CDC

cancel submit

## The Topic Is Cancer

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

### Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Colorectal (Colon) Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Breast Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cervical Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Lung Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Skin Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Other
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cancer Prevention and Control

# Recent Posts

Recommend on Facebook Tweet
![Share](/TemplatePackage/3.0/images/social/addthis-32.png)ShareCompartir

### ![National Program of Cancer
Registries](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2020/03/NPCR_logo_jpg-150x150.jpg)

### Cancer Registry Data: In the Clouds

April 3, 2020  
Technology has come a long way in recent years. With one click we can have
items at our doorstep within days or even hours! We can catch a ride to the
airport, keep in touch with friends and family on social networks, and use
Internet search engines for movie trivia instead of our memories. A lot of
technological advancements add to fun and convenience, but technological
advancements in cancer registry data can affect lives.



### ![Photo of a person washing her
hands](https://www.cdc.gov/cancer/survivors/patients/images/wash-
hands-250.jpg)Best Remedy for COVID-19 Is Prevention

March 16, 2020  
Since the novel coronavirus was first identified and named in January, there
has been a flurry of news articles and social media posts about the
respiratory illness, also known as COVID-19.

### ![Annual Report to the Nation on the Status of Cancer; map of
U.S.](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2020/03/20_314977-A_Jones_Twitter-
Report-Cancer-Graphics_L2-02_72dpi-1-e1584016208219-150x100.jpg)Conversations
with Authors: The Annual Report to the Nation

March 12,Â 2020  
Since 1998, the Annual Report to the Nation has provided a yearly status
report on cancer. We give an update of rates for new cases and deaths, as well
as trends for the most common cancers in the United States.



![Maureen Miller](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2020/01/Maureen-Miller-
headshot-110x150.jpg)

### Physician,Â GetÂ YourselfÂ Screened

February 20, 2020  
In recognition of Cancer Prevention Month, a âdisease detectiveâ in
CDCâs Division of Cancer Prevention and Control talks about what happened
when she seemed too busy screening patients for cancer to get screened
herself.



![Rhonda Walker during cancer
treatment.](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2020/02/Ronda-
duringchemo-2-150x150.jpg)

### Perspective

February 10, 2020  
"My beautiful long, blonde hair was completely gone just after the new year. I
was forty-two years old. I will never forget the look on my seven-year old
sonâs face the first time he saw me bald â his sad eyes broke my heart. He
could not wrap his mind around the thought that a doctor would give me
medicine that would make my hair fall out."



![Dr. Unger as a medical
resident,](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2020/01/Dr-Unger-
historical-2-149x150.jpg)

### Teal and White Yesterday and Today: The Evolution of Cervical Cancer
Screening

January 30, 2020  
Cervical cancer screening is a success story. This cancer is now rare in the
United States. Throughout these four decades of change, Dr. Unger said she
always had ârespect for the specimen.â Each piece of tissue comes from a
woman in whom we can help prevent cervical cancer with high-quality science.

### ![boxing glove punching through a wall,fighting back against the
flu](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2020/01/flu_cancer-is-a-
fight-300x300-150x150.jpg)

### Cancer,Â Flu, and You

January 10, 2020  
The US flu seasonÂ has started and is expected to continue for weeks. If you
have cancer now or have had cancer in the past, you are at high risk for
potentially serious complications from flu. As you spend time with loved ones
this winter, remember to take these 3 actions to fight flu.

![Photo of Jane Henley and her
mother](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2019/10/henley-150.jpg)

### Nine Caring Ways to Support a Lung Cancer Survivor

October 31, 2019  
You may know someone with lung cancer. Here are nine incredible ways that you
can support lung cancer survivors.



![Linda](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2019/10/linda-150.jpg)

### Linda Answers Cancer Survivorsâ Questions about Healthy Living

October 24, 2019  
As a cancer survivor, you may have health questions, but donât know who to
ask. Linda is a virtual friend and coach who provides guidance on healthy
lifestyle choices.

![From 2004 to 2009, about 89% of white women and about 78% of black women
survived at least five years after a breast cancer
diagnosis.](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2019/10/breast-cancer-survival-
diagram-infographic-150.jpg)

### Getting the Right Treatment at the Right Time to Reduce Inequities in
Breast Cancer Survival

October 9, 2019  
In 2017, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention published a
comprehensive series of articles on 5-year survival across several cancers.
For breast cancer, 5-year survival for all women was highâaround 90%âbut
survival was more than 10% lower among black women compared with white women,
which suggests that racial inequalities still exist despite great advances in
breast cancer treatment options.

![Photo of Jamie and her son
Paxton.](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2019/10/Jamie-Ennis-Bloyd-
ACCO-150.jpg)

### Easing the Burden of Children and Families Dealing with Cancer

October 1, 2019  
As a part of the American Childhood Cancer Organization (ACCO), I work to make
the lives of children and families suffering from cancer easier by providing
free information and resources that benefit the entire family, including the
child. My involvement with ACCO is very personal since in 2014, my son was
diagnosed with a very aggressive, stage four cancer at the age of five.

![Photo of Vivian and her
dad](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2019/09/vivian-150.jpg)

### Hispanic Heritage Month: New Spanish-Language Resources for Cancer
Patients Getting Chemotherapy

September 11, 2019  
Does my dad really have to have stage 4 cancer and not be able to understand
what his medical team is telling him? I didnât like the answer. In honor of
my Dad and Hispanic Heritage Month, Iâm so proud to spread the word about
the Preventing Infections in Cancer Patients program that is available in
English and Spanish.

![Photo of Vivian and her
dad](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2019/09/vivian-150.jpg)

### Mes de la Herencia Hispana: Nuevos recursos en espaÃ±ol para pacientes con
cÃ¡ncer que reciben quimioterapia

September 11, 2019  
Â¿Es realmente necesario que mi papÃ¡ tenga cÃ¡ncer en estadio 4 y no pueda
entender lo que su equipo mÃ©dico le estÃ¡ diciendo? No me gustÃ³ la
respuesta. en honor a mi padre y al Mes de la Herencia Hispana, tengo el
orgullo de correr la voz sobre el programa PrevenciÃ³n de Infecciones en
Pacientes con CÃ¡ncer que estÃ¡ disponible en inglÃ©s y espaÃ±ol.

![Jordyn with her
family.](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2019/08/Jordyn-2-150x150.jpg)

### Reflections on My Childhood Cancer Experience 10 Years Later

September 3, 2019  
Having cancer taught me to try to find as much joy where you can get it. A
cancer diagnosis and treatment can be so harrowing and overwhelming that
itâs important to keep a focus on what you love. For me itâs humor,
soccer, friends, and family. Cancer made me who I am, and I like who I am. I
also learned that short hair can be cute!

### ![](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2019/08/demetrius-150.jpg)Men,
Itâs Time for Real Talk about Prostate Health

August 29, 2019  
Should men get screened for prostate cancer? Each man must decide for himself.
Thatâs why itâs important to talk about screening (testing) with our
doctor. While we may be a bit anxious about this conversation, we have to
remember that thereâs a great deal at stakeâour families, our lifestyle,
and quality of life.

### ![Mother breastfeeding
son](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2019/07/iStock-187026519-Mother-and-
Son-stock-photo-150x150.jpg)Breastfeeding for Cancer Prevention

August 1, 2019  
Most people know there are many benefits to breastfeeding. Weâve probably
all heard that itâs the best source of nutrition for most babies and
provides many health benefits for infants. The health benefits for women who
breastfeed, however, are less commonly known. In addition to lowering a
motherâs risk for type 2 diabetes and high blood pressure, breastfeeding can
also lower a motherâs risk of breast and ovarian cancers.



### ![Doctor using
ipad](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2019/07/19_306070-A-Kincaid_DoMoreSeeIt_Instagram-150x150.jpg)Four
Reasons Why You Should Use the US Cancer Statistics Tools

July 1, 2019  
US Cancer Statistics, the official federal cancer statistics covering the
entire US population, has been updated with new data and new ways to analyze
the data by demographics and risk factors. Learn more about how you can
explore and use the latest US cancer data.



### ![](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2019/06/PICP-anniversary-
logo-150x150.jpg)Celebrating 10 Years of Collaboration to Prevent Infections
in Cancer Patients

June 26, 2019  
In 2009, CDC and the CDC Foundation, with financial support from Amgen
Oncology, announced the Preventing Infections in Cancer Patients (PICP)
program that would provide evidence-based resources for patients, caregivers,
and healthcare providers on how to lower the risk of infection.



![](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2019/06/support_holding_hands-150x150.jpg)

### Cancer Survivors Month: Free Help to Quit Smoking

June 25, 2019  
For cancer survivors in particular, we now know you can take important steps
to lower the risk of cancer coming back. These include knowing your family
history, living a healthy lifestyle including being physically active and
eating a balanced diet. A healthy lifestyle also means being tobacco-free.



### ![A group of five multi-ethnic seniors standing together in a park wearing
casual clothing. The African-American couple in the middle are smiling and the
others are
laughing.](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2019/05/iStock-652842568-Group-
of-five-multi-ethnic-seniors-standing-in-park-150x150.jpg)The Value of
Prevention Does Not End at 65

June 4, 2019  
"Medical science deserves hearty congratulations for extending the lifespan of
Americans to 80 years and beyond. This is truly an impressive feat,
considering that most babies born in 1900 did not live past the age of 50. I
rejoice in my own longevity, as I'm sure you do. But I also wonder whether the
same health care system that gave me these extra years is doing its best to
help me make sure those years are healthy ones. Frankly, I have my doubts."



![close-up of face with more than 20 stitches under the
eye](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2019/05/ginny-skin-cancer-150x150.jpg)

### Live and Learn: How Skin Cancer Made Prevention a Priority for Me

May 28, 2019  
"Even though I knew I had almost every risk factor for skin cancer, a lighter
natural skin tone, red hair, and a lot of sun exposure from my teen years as a
lifeguard, I fell into the far too common trap of thinking that skin cancer
wouldn't happen to me."





![Green cancer ribbon in the palm of a
hand](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2019/04/liver-cancer-
ribbon-e1557427632217-150x150.jpg)

### A Call for Action: Responding to the Increasing Incidence of Liver Cancer
in the United States

May 9, 2019  
Liver cancer is on the rise in the United States, but is largely preventable.
CDCâs National Comprehensive Cancer Control Program is committed to
decreasing liver cancer incidence. We are working with federal and non-federal
partners to fight this deadly disease and save lives.

### Â
![](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2019/04/iStock-474579567-Applying-
Sunscreen-150x150.jpg)The Truth About Sunscreen: 7 Facts That Will Set You
Straight for Skin Protection This Summer

May 1, 2019  
With summer around the corner, smart sun-lovers are planning how to keep their
skin safe from sunburn and skin cancer while enjoying the warmer weather. Here
are some important facts about sunscreen that will have you loving your skin
and the summer at the same time!

### ![](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2019/04/AuntPat2-150x150.jpg)Â When
Cancer Runs in the Family

April 23, 2019  
âI've learned a lot about my family in the process as these health
conversations have often turned into stories of our history, our tenacity, and
characteristics that we all share. I know that Aunt Pat would be proud of us
for having these tough conversations and learning more about ourselves. We all
miss her, but her memory remains strong."

###
![](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2019/04/iStock-1026754390-Attentive-
counselor-listens-to-patient-150x150.jpg)Patient Navigation: Helping Those
Facing Cancer Find the Way

April 1, 2019  
âSupport is key not only in cancer treatment, but also as a part of
prevention efforts and through cancer survivorship. During an overwhelming
time, patient navigators can create a trusted environment to provide
personalized guidance. I want to recognize these often-unsung heroes and their
contributions to each and every person facing cancer.â

### ![Screen for Life National Colorectal Cancer Action
Campaign](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2019/03/CDC_SFL_Balloon_Jumbo_1330X370_English61-150x150.jpg)A
Big Anniversary for Screen for Life!

March 4, 2019  
"One day soon, I hope this campaign and others like it can fade away, as
colorectal cancer screening becomes the norm for everyone. As we say, âNo
more excuses, folks!âÂ Screening really does save lives."

### ![Dr. Shayne Gallaway with his
grandmother.](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2019/02/1990-Photos-083-002-150x150.jpg)

### Supporting Cancer Survivors Who Use Tobacco

February 21, 2019  
"My grandmother died of lung cancer after a seven-year battle. She fought like
a champ, without ever so much as a complaint. She was like a second mother,
and one of my favorite people in the world. I still cry when I think about the
day we lost her. Cancer doesnât discriminate. In our lifetime, itâs almost
guaranteed that we will all know a family member or friend diagnosed with
cancer."

### ![80 percent in every
community](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2019/02/NCCRT-150x150.png)

### National Colorectal Cancer Roundtable: 80% in Every Community

February 20, 2019  
"In 2015, working with CDCâs Colorectal Cancer Control Program became deeply
personal when my sister-in-law died of colorectal cancer. Jan was age 56 when
she died and she had been diagnosed with stage 4 colorectal cancer two years
earlier. Like millions of people age 50-74 years, Jan had never been screened
for colorectal cancer; in fact, she was in the age group (50-54 years) with
the lowest U.S. rate of screening. Her colorectal cancer could have been
prevented or detected early, when treatment is more effective. Jan could have
been alive today."

![I am and I will World Cancer Day
logo](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2019/02/WCD19-21-Logo-Theme-Orange-
Screen-ENGLISH-150x150.png)

### World Cancer Day Reflections from Lisa Richardson, MD, MPH

February 4, 2019  
World Cancer Day, observed annually on February 4, raises worldwide awareness
about cancer. In this blog entry, Lisa C. Richardson, MD, MPH, answers a few
questions on how far we have come in lowering the number of cancer cases and
deaths and about the future of cancer prevention.

### ![National Comprehensive Cancer Control Program
logo](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2019/01/Graphic_NCCCP20Design20Element_03_cropped.jpg)New
Yearâs Resolution: Prevent Cervical Cancer

January 30, 2019  
"Each year, approximately 12,000 women in the United States get cervical
cancer. Although all women are at risk for cervical cancer, all women do not
have to get this cancer. Cervical cancer can be prevented or treated, if found
early. The keys to prevention and control are Education, Vaccination, and
Screening."

![Headshot of Cynthia Gelb](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2019/01/Cindy-
headshot-150x150.jpg)

### Letâs Help Women Understand: What We Need to Know About Gynecologic
Cancers

January 4, 2019  
"Once upon a time, women were told to get a Pap test every year. And most of
us did, even though it wasnât always clear why we were being tested. We just
did what we were told and thought it was a surefire way to stay healthy. But
times and recommendations have changed about what test to have, how often to
have it, and the reason to have it."

### ![Student drawing a heart on her
desk](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2018/12/iStock-536079537-Student-
drawing-a-heart-on-her-desk-150x150.jpg)This Blog May Inspire You but
Motivation is Another Story

December 18, 2018  
"While I can educate my friends and family about the harms of smoking and the
benefits of cessation and inspire them to quit smoking, I know they will each
find their own reason to quit smoking. Maybe they want to spend their money on
something besides cigarettes. Maybe they do not want to smell like smoke
anymore. Maybe they want to be healthy enough to play with their grandchildren
and be around to see them grow up. Mike was my reason. Whatâs yours?"

### ![Photo of Angela Dunbar with her
family.](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2018/12/Angela-with-
family-150x150.jpg)The Power Is In Our Hands

December 7, 2018  
âEven if youâre one of the healthiest people you know, always remember
that the person beside you may not be so lucky. Handwashing is not just about
protecting yourself, but about protecting people around you.â

###
![](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2018/11/stewart2-150x150.jpg)Raising
Awareness and Providing Solutions for Cancer in American Indians and Alaska
Natives

November 29, 2018  
âWe all have a lot to learn about the diverse cultures of Americaâs first
people. We also have much to do to help American Indians improve their health
status by preventing and controlling cancer.â

### ![](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2018/11/ribbon-
square-150x150.jpg)There Is Hope for a Future with Less Lung Cancer

November 6, 2018  
âThis November, as we raise awareness about lung cancer, we also proclaim
the progress that has been made that gives us hope for the future.â

### ![Photo of Demetrius Parker in 1996 holding his young son Vitthal, and
seated next to his late father John H. Parker,
Sr.](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2018/10/demetrius-dad-
son2-150x150.jpg)Men, Letâs Look at Our Culture to Understand and Improve
Our Health

October 23, 2018  
âUnderstanding your cultural background can help you prevent cancer or
control it. For example, the foods you eat, how physically active you are, how
close you are to a doctorâs officeâeven religious and spiritual
beliefsâcan either make it more or less likely that you may get cancer in
your lifetime.â

### ![Do you know your risk?
cdc.gov/BringYourBrave](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2018/10/bring-your-
brave-times-square-150x150.png)Be Informed. Be Empowered.

October 9, 2018  
Many breast cancers can be found early and treated. Getting the right
screening at the right time can make a difference for you.

### ![Photo of a woman](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2018/08/are-you-
listening-150.jpg)Know Your Body. Know Your Family History.

August 30, 2018  
âThere is no screening test recommended for any gynecologic cancer except
for cervical cancer. Knowing your own body, recognizing that something may be
wrong, and seeing a doctor may be lifesaving.â

### ![Photo of Dr. Teri
Larkins](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2018/05/teri-
larkins5-150x150.jpg)Women: Take Time for Self-Care. You're Worth It!

May 23, 2018  
âMy late grandmother was an accomplished elementary school principal and
teacher when she was diagnosed with breast cancer. She took action to modify
her lifestyle. As I have been inspired by my grandmother, I encourage you to
learn your personal and family health history. Make wellness a part of every
dimension of life.â

### ![Photo of a woman talking to her
doctor](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2018/05/patient-talking-
square-150x150.jpg)  
5 Things Cancer Survivors Should Know About Their Mental Health

May 17, 2018  
Sharing how youâre feeling mentally is just as important as sharing how you
feel physically. Talk to your health care provider.

### ![Photo of a bech bag, a wide-brimmed hat, sunglasses, sunscreen, and a
towel](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2018/05/sun-safety-
square-150x150.jpg)5 Simple Sun Safety Strategies

May 8, 2018  
Skin cancer can sometimes be deadly, and the treatment often leaves scars. Why
take the risk? There are many ways to be sun safe. Find strategies that work
for you and your family, so you can keep your skin healthy and still have fun!

### ![Photo of
Mallory](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2018/04/mallory-357-150x150.jpg)Protecting
Your Skin Is Worth the Effort

May 1, 2018  
âI wish I could tell 16-year-old me to never start tanning,â says skin
cancer survivor Mallory. âAs a mother, I will try very hard to make sure my
children never tan. I want them to know that the skin they were born with is
perfect, just the way it is.â

### ![Wheel showing the 10 essential public health services that all
communities should undertake: 1 Monitor health; 2 Diagnose and investigate
health problems; 3 Inform, educate, and empower people; 4 Mobilize community
partnerships; 5 Develop policies; 6 Enforce laws; 7 Link people to health
care; 8 Assure a competent workforce; 9 Evaluate and 10
Research.](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2018/04/essential-public-health-
services2-150x150.png)Data on the Forefront: How CDC Keeps Measuring Progress
and Targeting Action

April 12, 2018  
Data allow people to monitor health in communities, whether that is a small
area or the entire country. High quality, reliable cancer statistics mean we
can accurately track who is getting cancer and what types of cancer are
increasing or decreasing. Showing these data in an understandable way means
everyone involved can work smarter and do more good.

### ![Drinking alcohol raises the risk of some cancers. The less alcohol you
drink, the lower the risk of
cancer.](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2018/03/cancer-alcohol-
square-150x150.jpg)3 Weird Things About Acetaldehyde

April 2, 2018  
Acetaldehyde can cause cancer, and the more acetaldehyde you are exposed to,
the higher your cancer risk. But what is acetaldehyde?

### ![Photos of three native American
people](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2018/03/ai-an-colorectal-cancer-
screening-150x150.jpg)A Matter of Trust: Colorectal Cancer Screening among
Native Americans

March 21, 2018  
Fewer than half of American Indian and Alaska Native people are current with
colorectal cancer screening. CDC partners with Indian Health Service and
Tribally-run clinics to get more native American men and women screened.
Partnership helps us reach out in ways that respect customs and culture and
create trust.

### ![Photo of Cindy Gelb](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2018/02/cindy-
gelb-150x150.jpg)Prevent Colorectal Cancer: We Can Do It!

March 1, 2018  
âA childhood friend has late-stage colon cancer. The prognosis is grim. But
this is one cancer you can prevent,â writes Cindy Gelb, lead of CDC's
_Screen for Life_ campaign. âOne more late-stage diagnosis is one too many.
Each of us really can make a difference.â

### ![You can help prevent cancer by making healthy
choices](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2018/02/cancer-prevention-month-
healthy-choices-square-150x150.jpg)Lowering Your Cancer Risk: A Matter of Ups
and Downs

February 20, 2018  
Like creating a great song, creating a healthy body is a matter of ups and
downs. A few simple choices can help you engineer a lifetime with lower cancer
risk.

### ![You can protect yourself and your family against some cancers by getting
vaccinated.](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2018/02/vaccines-
thumbnail-150x150.png)Vaccination Nation: A Real Shot at Preventing Cancer

February 14, 2018  
Suppose someone tells you there are quick, easy ways to help keep people from
getting some kinds of cancer. Would you believe it?

### ![Baby Boomers: Get Tested for Hepatitis
C!](//blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2018/02/get-tested-for-hepatitis-c-
SMALL.png)Are You Part of the Silent Epidemic?

February 5, 2018  
If you saw the Beatles debut, gave peace a chance, or were a disco baby,
chances are youâre five times more likely than other adults to have
hepatitis C. Ask your doctor about a test at your next checkup.

### ![You can help prevent
cancer!](//blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2018/01/Generic-WCD-prevent-cancer-
button-480-x-480-150x150.jpg)Inspiring and Taking Action Against Cancer

January 31, 2018  
On World Cancer Day, itâs important to set our sights on a future where
every person has the right information, makes healthy choices that prevent
cancer before it starts, has the right screening at the right time, and gets
good cancer treatment no matter where they live.

### ![Photo of Dr. Virginia
Senkomago](//blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2018/01/virginia-
senkomago-150x150.jpg)Get the Facts: 3 Myths about Cervical Cancer Screening

January 9, 2018

DCPCâs Dr. Virginia Senkomago says, âMy friend told me that she had not
been screened for cervical cancer since the birth of her now 10-year-old
daughter. I tried to shed light on the myths she believed that make it okay
for her to avoid screening.â

### ![Photo of Gail Sullivan, a patient navigator in the New Hampshire
Colorectal Cancer Screening
Program.](//blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2018/01/gail-150x150.jpg)The Six Steps
New Hampshire Took to Get More People Screened for Colorectal Cancer

January 2, 2018

Screening at the right age can find colorectal cancer before it starts, but
some people still donât go for many reasons. A CDC-funded program in New
Hampshire created a way to overcome the problems patients had getting
screened.

### ![FORCE: Facing Our Risk of Cancer
Empowered](//blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2017/10/force-logo4-150x93.jpg)CDC
Partner Spotlight: Facing Our Risk of Cancer Empowered (FORCE)

November 20, 2017

This Thanksgiving holiday is also Family Health History Day. _Bring Your
Brave_ shines a spotlight on the amazing work of a partner that aims to
improve the lives of individuals affected by hereditary cancer.

### ![SurviveAL - Gulf States Young Breast Cancer Survivor
Network](//blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2014/04/surviveal-logo-150.jpg)CDC
Partner Spotlight: Gulf States Young Breast Cancer Survivor Network

October 26, 2017

Karen Meneses, PhD, RN, FAAN, Director of SurviveAL - Gulf States Young Breast
Cancer Survivor Network, says, âDonât isolate yourself as a young woman
facing breast cancer. Many programs offer support.â

### ![Dr. Jacqueline
Miller](//blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2014/04/miller2.jpg)Tackling Breast
Cancer: The Right Treatment for the Right Woman at the Right Time

October 18, 2017

âAs I talked to a patient of mine about how breast cancer took her
sisterâs life at the age of 42, I was reminded of how challenging it is to
explain how breast cancer is a different disease in every woman. The key is
getting the right treatment for the right woman at the right time.â

### ![Audra Moran, President and CEO of the Ovarian Cancer Research Fund
Alliance](//blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2017/09/audra-moran-150x150.jpg)Closing
Gaps in Ovarian Cancer

September 25, 2017

In recognition of Ovarian Cancer Awareness Month, CDCâs Sherri Stewart and
Audra Moran, President and CEO of the Ovarian Cancer Research Fund Alliance,
discuss the current state of ovarian cancer treatment and improvements that
can reduce deaths from ovarian cancer among all women.

### ![Photo of Terry and her husband
Johnny](//blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2017/08/terri-johnny-150x150.jpg)I Did
Everything to Avoid Cancerâ¦And It Still Got Me

August 30, 2017

Terri makes it her mission to help women who are at risk for or who have
ovarian cancer. She is also determined to live her life to the fullest. âI
feel that [cancer is] a life sentence, not a death sentence,â Terri says.

### ![Photo of Pam
B.](//blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2017/06/pam-b-150x150.jpg)Making Our Health a
Priority in Honor of National Cancer Survivors Day

June 1, 2017

âHaving cancer forced me to understand the importance of making my health a
priority, and I challenge each of you to do the same,â says breast cancer
survivor Pam Bryant.

### ![Photo of the mobile
mammobus](//blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2017/05/mobile-mammobus-
event-8-2-16-150x150.jpg)Mammo Bus Brings Breast Cancer Screening to American
Indian Women

May 16, 2017

A group of partners in and around the Fond du Lac reservation in Minnesota is
bringing no-cost mammograms to American Indian women with the Mobile Mammo
Bus. More than 650 women have been screened for breast cancer over the nine
years that the program has been in place. âThe mobile unit resonates
throughout the community here,â says a cancer outreach worker on the
reservation.

### ![Photo of Lewis and his
dog](//blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2017/04/lewis-150x150.jpg)Lewisâ Story:
Throat Cancer Changed His World

April 6, 2017

âWhen you hear the word âcancer,â your world changes in an instant,â
says Lewis. Diagnosed with stage IV throat cancer, Lewis endured seven weeks
of chemotherapy and radiation treatments, which shrunk the tumor to the point
that it could no longer be found. Lewis and his wife Amy started a support
group for people with head and neck cancers.

### ![Photo of Dr. J. Sumner
Bell](//blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2017/03/bell_150px.jpg)Living Through the
Decades and Getting Closer to Colorectal Cancer Screening

March 13, 2017  
By J. Sumner Bell, MD, AGAF

If you grew up in the 1970s it was a time of bell bottoms and groovy tunes.
You may have worn mood rings and watched John Travolta on _Welcome Back
Kotter._ Itâs 2017, and if youâre now 50 years or older, let this be the
year of your colorectal cancer screening appointment.

### ![Photo of Dr. Lisa
Richardson](//blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2015/03/Richardson_200px-150x150.jpg)CDC
Celebrates World Cancer Day

February 2, 2017  
By Lisa C. Richardson, MD, MPH

âIn honor of World Cancer Day on February 4th, Iâm going to pause for a
moment to share with you what CDC has done to help improve cancer prevention,
early detection, and treatment; to raise awareness about cancer; and educate
people with cancer. Iâm proud of CDCâs battle against cancer.â

### Tribal Policies Help Set Smoke-Free Standard

November 16, 2016

Reducing exposure to tobacco saves human suffering and economic hardship,
since it is especially dangerous to children, elders, and diabetics. In
addition, smoke-free spaces help people quit abusing tobaccoâa particularly
important outcome in Fond du Lac, where more than half of tribal members smoke
cigarettes. This project helped create a community norm that celebrates
healthy environments.

### ![Photo of Pam
Bryant](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2016/09/PamBryant-199x300.jpg)Breast
Cancer Survivorship: Pamâs Story

September 27, 2016

When Pam Bryant was diagnosed with breast cancer at only 43 years old, she was
disappointed, but not surprised. Several close family members had been
diagnosed with breast cancer at an early age, including her mother, a maternal
aunt, and a cousin.

### ![Photo of Van S. Breeding,
MD](//blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2016/08/breeding3.jpg)A Rural Community
Overcomes Barriers to Colorectal Cancer Screening

September 7, 2016  
By Van S. Breeding, MD

âAs a personal champion for screening colonoscopies, I used my own story,
along with stories of people under the age of 50 in our community who had gone
through colonoscopies, in order to encourage our patients to get screened.â

### ![Photo of Dr. Lisa
Richardson](//blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2015/03/Richardson_200px-150x150.jpg)CDC
Helps âShoot for the Moonâ

August 3, 2016  
By Lisa C. Richardson, MD, MPH

âCDC and all Cancer Moonshot partners are here to make sure fewer people get
cancer, but if cancer develops, we must respect the individuals and meet their
needs while giving hope.â

### ![Cheat Sheet for Menâs Cancer Screenings and Good
Health](//blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2016/06/mens-cheat-
sheet-231x300-150x150.jpg)Overwhelmed by Too Many Health Tips? Cheat Sheet for
Menâs Cancer Screenings and Good Health

June 13, 2016  
By Dr. Lisa Richardson  
If youâre like my husband, you get a lot of health tips from your wife, mom,
coworkers, and friends. To help you manage your cancer screenings, Iâve
created your very own cheat sheet for cancer screenings and good health. Print
it out and take it to your next appointment so you can add your doctorâs
recommendations for further screenings or tests based on your own health,
family history, and age.

### ![Cheat Sheet for Womenâs Cancer Screenings and Good
Health](//blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2016/05/cheat-
sheet-150x150.jpg)Overwhelmed by Too Much Health Advice? Cheat Sheet for
Womenâs Cancer Screenings and Good Health

May 16, 2016  
By Dr. Lisa Richardson  
Our âcheat sheetâ summarizes the cancer screenings most women need. But
remember, thereâs more to your health than just cancer screenings. Print the
cheat sheet and take it with you to your next well-woman exam, so you can
write down tests your doctor may recommend for other diseases or conditions
such as diabetes, osteoporosis, high blood pressure, or cholesterol.

### ![Photo of Gary](//blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2016/03/gary-150x150.jpg)I
Have Liver Cancer, But You Donât Have To

March 9, 2016  
An illness caught Gary, 61, off guard in 2013. When doctors suggested he go
for more tests, he knew his condition was more severe than he first guessed.
But the test results found something he never expected: liver cancer.

### ![Photo of the Charlotte Kimelman Cancer Institute in St.
Thomas](//blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2016/02/USVI4_blog-150x150.jpg)The Global
Challenge of Cancer

February 2, 2016  
By Hilda Razzaghi  
âI learned that there were only a few physicians who provided care to cancer
patients outside of the hospital in St. Thomas, and many of the patients who
were diagnosed with cancer left the islands for treatment due to cultural
stigma as well as limited financial resources.â

### ![Photo of George
Hilliard](//blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2015/11/GeorgeHilliardCancerSurvivor-150x150.jpg)My
Personal Prescription for Surviving Cancer

November 18, 2015  
By George Hilliard  
âI began my journey back to health by relying on my support network and
positive attitude.â

### ![Preventing Infections in Cancer Patients \(PICP\): A comprehensive
initiative led by CDC and the CDC Foundation to reduce infections in people
with
cancer](//blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2015/11/picp-150x150.jpg)Chemotherapyâs
Most Serious Side Effect

November 4, 2015  
By Dr. Lisa Richardson  
âWhether itâs one of my patients or a friend, Iâm often asked about the
side effects of chemotherapy. Usually, they want to know if theyâll lose
their hairâa valid and reasonable question. I answer this question for them
(depends on the type of chemotherapy), but then start talking about a more
serious side effect called neutropenia. Itâs one that they might not know to
ask about.â

### ![Photo of Traci
Ramirez](//blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2015/10/TraciRamirez2-150x150.jpg)Being
a Cancer Survivor Reminds Me Life Is Precious

October 15, 2015  
By Traci Ramirez  
âIt hasnât been easy. Iâve gone through bouts of fear, anxiety, and
disappointment on my way back to wellness. … On the other hand, I have been
able to regain my happy life. My diagnosis has given me a greater appreciation
for life.â

### ![Graph showing the actual and projected mortality rates for all cancer
sites combined, by race and sex, United States, 1975 to
2020](//blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2015/06/all_sites_combined-150x150.jpg)Are
We On Track to Reducing Illness and Death from Cancer by 2020?

July 2, 2015  
By Hannah K. Weir, PhD  
âDeath rates are predicted to continue decreasing for cancers of the female
breast, lung and bronchus, cervix and uterus, colon and rectum, oral cavity
and pharynx, and prostate. We were disappointed to find that this is not true
for melanoma.â

### ![A photo of Sharon McKenna enjoying a sunny
day](//blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2015/04/McKenna_Umbrella-150x150.jpg)A Tan
Is Not a Sign of Health

April 28, 2015  
By Sharon McKenna, Sun Safety Manager, Arizona Department of Health Services

âKnowledge is power, and I want to equip children with tools to protect them
against sun damage.â

### ![Photo of Dr. Lisa
Richardson](//blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2015/03/Richardson_200px-150x150.jpg)Prevent
Colorectal Cancer: The Best Test Is the One That Gets Done

March 2, 2015  
By Lisa C. Richardson, MD, MPH

âAs an oncologist, a public health professional, and someone who admits to
being over 50, Iâm here to say that there are no more excuses. If you are 50
years old or older, itâs time to get screened for colorectal cancer.â

### Family Trees and Family Ties: Can Family Communication Increase Breast
Cancer Screening and Monitoring?

August 25, 2014  
By Kari Mendelsohn-Victor, Deb Duquette, and Maria Katapodi

âThis story shows key issues about the role of family ties in breast cancer
monitoring and risk assessment. Do family members share important health
information with each other? Do family members encourage each other to be
screened for breast cancer as recommended?â

### Knowing BRCA Changed My Life

June 10, 2014  
By Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz

âDespite the perception that breast cancer is only something older women
need to worry about, young women can and do get breast cancer. I myself was a
young woman at high risk, but didnât know it. Just months after a clean
mammogram, in late 2007, I heard those terrible words, âYou have breast
cancer.ââ

### ![Photo of Dr. Travis
Kidner](//blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2014/04/TravisKidner_179_250-150x150.jpg)Melanoma:
A Surgeon and Survivorâs Perspective

April 29, 2014  
By Travis Kidner, MD

âAs a doctor, my job is to do everything I can to achieve the best possible
outcomes for my patients. But as a cancer survivor, I feel a huge
responsibility to help prevent new melanoma cases. Exposure to UV radiation
from either the sun or artificial tanning lamps is the leading cause of skin
cancers worldwide.â

### ![Cancer and alcohol infographic](//www.cdc.gov/cancer/images/alcohol-
cancer-english-250.jpg)The Surprising Link Between Alcohol and Cancer

April 14, 2014  
By Dafna Kanny, PhD

âStudies have shown that alcohol was responsible for about 20,000 cancer
deaths in the United States in 2009.â

### How Health Care Providers Can Use Genomics to Prevent Cancer

March 31, 2014  
By Katrina Trivers, Deb Duquette, and Kate Reed

âFamily history information can save patients' lives! Encourage your
patients to learn their family history of cancer for all relatives through
their grandparents' generation if possible.â

### ![Photo of Dr. Frank
Colangelo](//blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2014/03/colangelo-150x150.jpg)Weâre
Increasing Colorectal Cancer Screening; You Can, Too!

March 10, 2014  
By guest blogger Frank Colangelo, MD, FACP

âI became a very strong champion for colorectal cancer screening several
years ago after one of my patients died from this terrible disease in his
early 50s.â

### ![Photo of Dawn M.
Holman](//blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2014/02/holman-150x150.jpg)The Bright
Side of Going Dark

February 24, 2014  
By Dawn M. Holman, MPH

âOur seemingly harmless nighttime habits may not only interfere with our
sleep, but may also increase our cancer risk.â

### ![Photo of Cynthia A.
Gelb](//blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2014/01/gelb_200_246-150x150.jpg)The Power
of the Pap

January 28, 2014  
By Cynthia A. Gelb

âDuring the past 40 years in the United States, the number of women dying
from cervical cancer has decreased dramatically, largely because of the Pap
test. We owe so much to Dr. Georgios Papanikolaou, the inventor of the Pap
test.â

### Lung CancerâWhy the Numbers Are Personal

January 9, 2014  
By S. Jane Henley, MSPH

âMany people have worked very hard to tell the story of the dangers of
smoking. My mother was 67 years old when she was diagnosed with lung cancer.
She started smoking cigarettes when she was 15 years old, and tried to quit
almost every day of her life. After her diagnosis, she did succeed and stayed
smoke-free until her last breath, 14 months later.â

### ![Photo of Dr. Marcus
Plescia](//blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2013/12/plescia_200_279-150x150.jpg)Why
I Chose FITâAnd You Can, Too!

December 16, 2013  
By Marcus Plescia, MD, MPH

When Dr. Marcus Plescia, former director of CDC's Division of Cancer
Prevention and Control, turned 50, it was time to get tested for colorectal
(colon) cancer. Which of the three recommended screening tests did he choose?

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * ePub file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RIS file

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Page last reviewed:Friday, April 3, 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Page last updated:Friday, April 3, 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Content source: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Division of Cancer Prevention and Control

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * YouTube

![Department of Health and Human
Services](/TemplatePackage/3.0/images/hhs.png)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * ###### About CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Employment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Newsroom
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Training/Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC's Organization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Mission and Vision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Using this Site
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * ###### Legal

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Link to Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Accessibility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * No FEAR Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Inspector General
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * USA.gov
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   * ###### Contact CDC

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

1600 Clifton Road Atlanta, GA 30329-4027 USA

800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636)

Contact CDC-INFO

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

