

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

_Salmonella_

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

# Multistate Outbreak of _Salmonella_ Typhimurium and _Salmonella_ Newport
Infections Linked to Cantaloupe (Final Update)

Minus

Related Pages

Posted October 5, 2012 3:15 PM ET

This outbreak appears to be over. However, _Salmonell_ a is an important cause
of human illness in the United States. More information about _Salmonella_ ,
and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on
the CDC _Salmonella_ Web Page and the CDC Vital Signs Web Page.

Highlights

                    * **Read the Advice to Consumers »**
                    * A total of 261 persons infected with the outbreak strains of _Salmonella_ Typhimurium (228 persons) and _Salmonella_ Newport (33 persons) were reported from 24 states.

                      * 94 ill persons were hospitalized. Three deaths were reported in Kentucky.
                    * Collaborative investigation efforts of state, local, and federal public health and regulatory agencies indicated that cantaloupe originating from Chamberlain Farms Produce, Inc. of Owensville, Indiana, was the source of this outbreak. 
                      * On August 22, 2012, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) announced a recall of cantaloupesExternal originating from Chamberlain Farms Produce, Inc.
                      * On October 3, 2012, FDA issued a document that lists observations Cdc-pdf[PDF - 2 pages]External made by the FDA investigators during the inspection of Chamberlain Farms.
                    * This particular outbreak appears to be over. However, _Salmonella_ is still an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about _Salmonella_ and steps people can take to reduce their risk for infection can be found on the CDC _Salmonella_ Web Page and the CDC Vital Signs Web Page.

Outbreak Summary

#### Introduction

CDC collaborated with public health officials in many states and the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of
_Salmonella_ Typhimurium and _Salmonella_ Newport infections linked to
cantaloupe originating from Chamberlain Farms Produce, Inc. of Owensville,
Indiana.

Public health investigators used DNA "fingerprints" of _Salmonella_ bacteria
obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis
(PFGE) to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. They
used data from PulseNet, the national subtyping network made up of state and
local public health laboratories and federal food regulatory laboratories that
performs molecular surveillance of foodborne infections. Since the PFGE
pattern of _Salmonella_ Typhimurium connected with this outbreak is fairly
common (typically associated with 10 to 15 cases of foodborne illness per
month in the United States), a second test, Multiple-Locus Variable-number
tandem repeat Analysis (MLVA), was used in addition to PFGE to define the
outbreak strain.

A total of 261 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of _Salmonella_
Typhimurium and _Salmonella_ Newport were reported from 24 states: Alabama
(25), Arkansas (6), Florida (1), Georgia (13), Illinois (36), Indiana (30),
Iowa (9), Kentucky (66), Maryland (1), Michigan (8), Minnesota (2),
Mississippi (7), Missouri (17), Montana (1), New Jersey (2), North Carolina
(5), Ohio (5), Oklahoma (1), Pennsylvania (2), South Carolina (4), Tennessee
(8), Texas (2), Virginia (1), and Wisconsin (9). The number of ill persons
reported declined in certain states from previous reports since MLVA in now
being used to define the outbreak strain of _Salmonella_ Typhimurium.

Among 257 persons for whom information was available, illness onset dates
ranged from July 6, 2012 to September 16, 2012. Ill persons ranged in age from
less than 1 year to 100 years, with a median age of 47 years. Fifty-five
percent of ill persons were female. Among 163 persons with available
information, 84 (51%) reported being hospitalized. Three deaths were reported
in Kentucky. Results of antibiotic susceptibility testing indicated that this
strain of _Salmonella_ is susceptible to commonly prescribed antibiotics.

This particular outbreak appears to be over. However, _Salmonella_ is still an
important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about
_Salmonella_ , and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection,
can be found on the CDC _Salmonella_ Web Page and the CDC Vital Signs Web
Page.

#### Investigation of the Outbreak

#### Investigation of _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections

Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations conducted by officials
in local, state, and federal public health, agriculture, and regulatory
agencies linked this outbreak to cantaloupe originating from Chamberlain Farms
Produce, Inc. of Owensville, Indiana.

In interviews, ill persons answered questions about foods consumed and other
exposures during the week before becoming ill. Eighty-one (65%) of 123 ill
persons interviewed reported consuming cantaloupe in the week before their
illness began.

Laboratory testing conducted by the Kentucky Division of Laboratory Services
isolated the outbreak strain of _Salmonella_ Typhimurium from two cantaloupes
collected from a retail location in Kentucky. Traceback investigations
indicated that these cantaloupes originated from Chamberlain Farms.

From August 14-16, 2012, FDA investigators collected samples from surface
areas at the farm as well as samples of cantaloupe at Chamberlain FarmsCdc-
pdfExternal. Samples of cantaloupe collected at Chamberlain Farms showed the
presence of _Salmonella_ Typhimurium bacteria with a DNA fingerprint that
matched the outbreak strain.

On August 22, 2012, Chamberlain Farms, Inc. voluntarily recalled
cantaloupeExternal grown on its farm. Records available at the time indicated
that the product was initially shipped to Indiana, Kentucky, Missouri,
Tennessee, Ohio, Illinois, and Wisconsin, although further shipment was
likely.  

#### Investigation of _Salmonella_ Newport Infections

During August 2012, CDC began collaborating with public health officials in
several states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate
a multistate outbreak of 33 _Salmonella_ Newport infections. The geographic
distribution, dates of illness onset, and initial interview information
suggested a possible connection between the _Salmonella_ Newport outbreak and
the _Salmonella_ Typhimurium outbreak linked to Chamberlain farms.

Among 21 people in the _Salmonella_ Newport outbreak for whom information was
available, 13 (61%) reported eating cantaloupe in the 7 days before illness.
As part of the ongoing investigation at Chamberlain Farms, FDA collected and
tested samples of cantaloupe. One of the samples yielded _Salmonella_ Newport
with a PFGE pattern indistinguishable from the cluster of _Salmonella_ Newport
infections described above. Based on an epidemiologic link and results of
laboratory testing, CDC combined these two investigations and grouped the two
associated PFGE patterns together as the "outbreak strains."

Also as part of the ongoing investigation at Chamberlain Farms, the State of
Indiana collected and tested samples of watermelon grown at the farm. One of
the samples yielded _Salmonella_ Newport with a different PFGE pattern. This
pattern was indistinguishable from another cluster of 25 ill persons with
_Salmonella_ Newport infections in 8 states. Interviews did not identify a
clear link between these illnesses and consumption of melons.

On October 3, 2012, FDA issued a document that lists observations Cdc-pdf[PDF
- 2 pages]External made by the FDA investigators during the inspection of
Chamberlain Farms.

This particular outbreak appears to be over. However, _Salmonella_ is an
important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about
_Salmonella_ infections, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of
infection, can be found on the CDC _Salmonella_ Web Page and the CDC Vital
Signs Web Page.

Progression of the Outbreak Investigation

#### October 5, 2012

#### Final Case Count Update

Since the PFGE pattern of _Salmonella_ Typhimurium connected with this
outbreak is fairly common (typically associated with 10 to 15 cases per month
in the United States), a second test, Multiple-Locus Variable-number tandem
repeat Analysis (MLVA), was used in addition to PFGE to define the outbreak
strain.

A total of 261 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of _Salmonella_
Typhimurium and _Salmonella_ Newport were reported from 24 states: Alabama
(25), Arkansas (6), Florida (1), Georgia (13), Illinois (36), Indiana (30),
Iowa (9), Kentucky (66), Maryland (1), Michigan (8), Minnesota (2),
Mississippi (7), Missouri (17), Montana (1), New Jersey (2), North Carolina
(5), Ohio (5), Oklahoma (1), Pennsylvania (2), South Carolina (4), Tennessee
(8), Texas (2), Virginia (1), and Wisconsin (9). The number of ill persons
reported declined in certain states from previous reports since MLVA is now
being used to define the outbreak strain of _Salmonella_ Typhimurium.

Among 257 persons for whom information was available, illness onset dates
ranged from July 6, 2012 to September 16, 2012. Ill persons ranged in age from
less than 1 year to 100 years, with a median age of 47 years. Fifty-five
percent of ill persons were female. Among 163 persons with available
information, 84 (51%) reported being hospitalized. Three deaths were reported
in Kentucky.

#### September 13, 2012

#### Case Count Update

A total of 270 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of _Salmonella_
Typhimurium and _Salmonella_ Newport have been reported from 26 states. The 66
new cases are from 18 states: Alabama (3), Arkansas (1), Georgia (5), Iowa
(2), Illinois (10), Indiana (11), Kentucky (7), Maryland (1), Michigan (1),
Missouri (8), Mississippi (2), Montana (1), North Carolina (2), Ohio (4),
Oklahoma (1), South Carolina (2), Virginia (1), and Wisconsin (4).

Among 270 persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range
from July 6, 2012 to August 30, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than
1 year to 100 years, with a median age of 49 years. Fifty-five percent of ill
persons are female. Among 196 persons with available information, 101 (52%)
reported being hospitalized. Three deaths have been reported in Kentucky.

Illnesses that occurred after August 20, 2012 might not yet be reported due to
the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is
reported.

#### Investigation Update

During August 2012, CDC began collaborating with public health officials in
several states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate
a multistate outbreak of _Salmonella_ Newport infections. Epidemiologic,
laboratory, and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local,
state, and federal public health, agriculture, and regulatory agencies
indicate that cantaloupes grown by Chamberlain Farms in Indiana are a likely
source of this outbreak of _Salmonella_ Newport infections. Among 30 persons
for whom information is available in this outbreak, illness onset dates range
from July 9, 2012 to August 18, 2012. Ill persons range in age from 4 years to
80 years, with a median age of 60 years. Forty-three percent of patients are
female. Among 23 persons with available information, 11 (47%) reported being
hospitalized.  No deaths have been reported.  The geographic distribution,
dates of illness onset, and initial interview information suggested a possible
connection between this outbreak and the _Salmonella_ Typhimurium outbreak
linked to Chamberlain farms. Among 21 people in the _Salmonella_ Newport
outbreak for whom information is available, 13 (61%) reported eating
cantaloupe in the 7 days before illness.

As part of the ongoing investigation at Chamberlain Farms, FDA collected and
tested samples of cantaloupe. One of these samples yielded _Salmonella_
Newport with a PFGE pattern (pattern .0807) indistinguishable from the cluster
of _Salmonella_ Newport infections described above. Based on an epidemiologic
link and results of laboratory testing, CDC has combined these two
investigations and grouped the two associated PFGE patterns together as the
"outbreak strains."

Also as part of the ongoing investigation at Chamberlain Farms, the State of
Indiana collected and tested samples of watermelon grown at the farm. One of
these samples yielded _Salmonella_ Newport with a different PFGE pattern
(.0149). This pattern is indistinguishable from another cluster of 25 ill
persons with _Salmonella_ Newport infections in 8 states currently being
investigated by state and federal officials. Investigations are ongoing to
determine if there is a link between these illnesses and consumption of
melons.

#### August 30, 2012

#### Case Count Update

A total of 204 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of _Salmonella_
Typhimurium have been reported from 22 states. The 26 new cases are from 12
states: Arkansas (2), Florida (1), Georgia (1), Illinois (3), Indiana (4),
Iowa (1), Kentucky (7), Minnesota (1) Missouri (1), North Carolina (2), Ohio
(1), and Tennessee (2).

Among 149 persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range
from July 7, 2012 to August 18, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than
1 year to 100 years, with a median age of 50 years. Fifty-nine percent of ill
persons are female. Among 149 persons with available information, 78 (52%)
reported being hospitalized. Two deaths have been reported in Kentucky.

Illnesses that occurred after August 7, 2012 might not yet be reported due to
the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is
reported.

#### August 28, 2012

#### Environmental Sampling Update

From August 14 to 16, FDA investigators collected samples from surface areas
at the farm as well as samples of cantaloupe at Chamberlain Farms. Samples of
cantaloupe collected at Chamberlain Farms show the presence of _Salmonella_
Typhimurium bacteria with a DNA fingerprint that matches the outbreak strain.

#### August 23, 2012

#### Case Count Update

A total of 178 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of _Salmonella_
Typhimurium have been reported from 21 states. The 37 new cases are from 13
states: Alabama (6), Georgia (2), Illinois (4), Indiana (5), Kentucky (6),
Massachusetts (2), Minnesota (1), Mississippi (3), Missouri (3), New Jersey
(1), Ohio (1), Texas (1), and Wisconsin (2). Since the last update cases have
been reported from one additional state, Massachusetts.

Among 121 persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range
from July 7, 2012 to August 9, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1
year to 100 years, with a median age of 48 years. Fifty-nine percent of ill
persons are female. Among 121 persons with available information, 62 (51%)
reported being hospitalized. Two deaths have been reported in Kentucky.

Illnesses that occurred after July 31, 2012 might not yet be reported due to
the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is
reported.

#### Recall

On August 22, 2012, Chamberlain Farms Produce, Inc. of Owensville, Indiana
voluntarily recalled cantaloupeExternal grown on its farm, because it may be
one source contributing to the multistate outbreak of _Salmonella_ Typhimurium
infections.

Records available currently indicate that this product was initially shipped
to Indiana, Kentucky, Missouri, Tennessee, Ohio, Illinois, and Wisconsin,
although further shipment was likely.

#### Initial Announcement

#### August 17, 2012

CDC is collaborating with public health officials in several states and the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak
of _Salmonella_ Typhimurium infections. Joint investigation efforts indicate
that cantaloupe grown in southwestern Indiana is a likely source of this
outbreak.  As a result of the initial investigations by the state health
departments in Indiana and Kentucky, a farm in southwestern Indiana has
contacted its distributors, which reach outside Indiana into other states, and
is withdrawing its cantaloupe from the market place.The farm has agreed to
cease distributing cantaloupes for the rest of the growing season.

Public health investigators are using DNA "fingerprints" of _Salmonella_
bacteria obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel
electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that may be part of
this outbreak. They are using data from PulseNet, the national subtyping
network made up of state and local public health laboratories and federal food
regulatory laboratories that performs molecular surveillance of foodborne
infections.

A total of 141 persons infected with the outbreak strain of _Salmonella_
Typhimurium have been reported from 20 states.  The number of ill people
identified in each state is as follows:  Alabama (7), Arkansas (3), California
(2), Georgia (1), Illinois (17), Indiana (13), Iowa (7), Kentucky (50),
Michigan (6), Minnesota (3), Missouri (9), Mississippi (2), New Jersey (1),
North Carolina (3), Ohio (3), Pennsylvania (2), South Carolina (3), Tennessee
(6), Texas (1), and Wisconsin (2).

Among persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range
from July 7, 2012 to August 4, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1
to 92 years, with a median age of 49 years old. Fifty-five percent of ill
persons are female. Among 64 persons with available information, 31 (48%)
patients reported being hospitalized. Two deaths have been reported in
Kentucky.

The outbreak can be visually described with a chart showing the number of
persons who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi
curve. This pattern has been seen before in PulseNet, and in the past
typically caused 10-15 cases per month. Illnesses that occurred after July 26,
2012, might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person
becomes ill and when the illness is reported.

#### Investigation of the Outbreak

Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations conducted by officials
in local, state, and federal public health, agriculture, and regulatory
agencies indicate that cantaloupes grown in southwestern Indiana are a likely
source of this outbreak of _Salmonella_ Typhimurium infections. Investigations
are ongoing to identify the source of contaminated cantaloupes. In interviews,
ill persons answered questions about foods consumed and other exposures during
the week before becoming ill. Eighteen (75%) of 24 ill persons interviewed
reported consuming cantaloupe in the week before their illness began. The
Kentucky Division of Laboratory Services has isolated the outbreak strain of
_Salmonella_ Typhimurium from two cantaloupes collected from a retail location
in Kentucky.

Preliminary results of antibiotic susceptibility testing indicate that this
strain of _Salmonella_ is susceptible to commonly prescribed antibiotics.
There is no connection between this _Salmonella_ outbreak and the 2011
multistate outbreak of listeriosis linked to whole cantaloupes from Jensen
Farms, Colorado.

CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory
surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill persons and to
interview ill persons about foods eaten before becoming ill. Investigations
are ongoing to determine if other types of melons may be linked to illness.
FDA is continuing to work closely with CDC and state partners during this
investigation. CDC will update the public on the progress of this
investigation as information becomes available.

At a Glance:

                    * Case Count: 261
                    * States: 24
                    * Deaths: 3
                    * Hospitalizations: 94
                    * Recall: Yes

More Information:

                    * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                    * Signs & Symptoms
                    * Key Resources

CLICK TO VIEW EPI CURVE GRAPHS

![Final Epi Curve: Persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella
Typhimurium and Salmonella Newport, by date of illness
onset](/salmonella/typhimurium-cantaloupe-08-12/images/100512-epi-sm.jpg)

CLICK TO VIEW CASE COUNT MAPS

![Final Case Count Map: Persons infected with the outbreak strains of
Salmonella Typhimurium and Salmonella Newport, by
State](/salmonella/typhimurium-cantaloupe-08-12/images/100512-map-sm.jpg)

Page last reviewed: October 5, 2012

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Foodborne,
Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases (DFWED)

home _Salmonella_ Homepage

                    * Questions & Answersplus icon
                      * Additional Information
                    * Prevention
                    * Symptoms
                    * Diagnosis & Treatmentplus icon
                      * Diagnostic and Public Health Testing
                    * Current Outbreaksplus icon
                      * Reporting Timeline
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Pet Turtlesplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a tortugas mascota pequeÃ±as
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Cut Fruitplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Ground Beefplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a la carne de res molida
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Turtlesplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a turtugas mascota
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pig Ear Dog Treatsplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Papayasplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a papayas frescas enteras importadas de MÃ©xico
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Karawan brand Tahiniplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a tahini de la marca Karawan
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Backyard Poultryplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brotes de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculados a aves de corral domÃ©sticas
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Raw Tunaplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ Newport vinculado a atÃºn crudo congelado
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melonplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ Carrau vinculado a melÃ³n y sandÃ­a precortados
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                        * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Butterball Brand Ground Turkeyplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado al pavo molido de marca Butterball
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                        * Actualizaciones de la investigaciÃ³n del brote, por fecha
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Hedgehogsplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a los erizos como mascota
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                        * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                    * Previous Outbreaksplus icon
                      * 2018 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Multidrug-Resistant _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Raw Turkey Productsplus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por Salmonella multirresistente vinculado a productos de pavo crudo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Tahini from Achdut Ltd., 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a tahini elaborado por Achdut Ltd.
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Raw Chicken Products, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Advice to Clinicians
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por Salmonella multirresistente vinculado a productos de pollo crudo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Recomendaciones para los mÃ©dicos
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Ground Beef, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a carne molida de res
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Agbeni Infections, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Gravel Ridge Farms Shell Eggs, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado al pollo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chicken, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado al pollo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Hy-Vee Spring Pasta Salad, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por Salmonella vinculado a la ensalada de pasta âHy-Vee Spring Pasta Saladâ
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Kelloggâs Honey Smacks Cereal, 2018plus icon
                          * Salmonella Infections Linked to Kelloggâs Honey Smacks Cereal en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melon, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melon en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Contact with Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Contact with Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Case Count Maps
                        * _Salmonella_ Braenderup Infections Linked to Shell Eggs, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Braenderup Infections Linked to Shell Eggs en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recalls and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Dried Coconut, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Dried Coconut en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall and Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Guinea Pigs, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Guinea Pigs en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Case Count Maps en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Signs & Symptoms en EspaÃ±ol
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chicken Salad, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chicken Salad en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Kratom, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Kratom en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recalls and Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Montevideo Infections Linked to Raw Sprouts, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Raw Sprouts en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Shredded Coconut, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Shredded Coconut en EspaÃ±ol
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Shredded Coconut á» Viá»t Nam [PDF â 3 pages]
                          * Recall and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2017 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Urbana Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Urbana Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Newport & Infantis Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Newport & Infantis Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Anatum Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Anatum Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Turtles, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles, 2017 en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Case Count Maps
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Laboratory Exposure, 2017plus icon
                          * Advice to Students & Employees in Microbiology Laboratories
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry in Backyard Flocksplus icon
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Live Poultry FAQ
                      * 2016 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Heidelberg Infections Linked to Contact with Dairy Calves, 2016plus icon
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                        * _Salmonella_ Oranienburg Infections Linked to Shell Eggs, 2016plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Reading and _Salmonella_ Abony Infections linked to Alfalfa Sprouts, 2016plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps 
                          * Epi Curves 
                          * Signs & Symptoms 
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2016plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Live Poultry FAQs
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Montevideo and _Salmonella_ Senftenberg Infections Linked to Wonderful Pistachios, 2016plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts from One Contaminated Seed Lot, 2016plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Virchow Infections Linked to Raw Meal Organic Shake and Meal Products, 2016plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2015 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) Infections Linked to Sprouted Nut Butter Spreads, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles, 2015plus icon
                          * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Advice to Pet Owners en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Signs & Symptoms 
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Poona Infections Linked to Imported Cucumbers, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Multidrug-Resistant _Salmonella_ I 4,[5],12:i:- and _Salmonella_ Infantis Infections Linked to Pork, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Enteritidis Infections Linked to Raw, Frozen, Stuffed Chicken Entrees Produced by Aspen Foods, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Drug-Resistant _Salmonella_ Enteritidis Infections Linked to Raw, Frozen, Stuffed Chicken Entrees Produced by Barber Foods, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2015plus icon
                          * Advice to Backyard Flock Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Raw Tuna, 2015plus icon
                          * Advice to Retailers & Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Crested Geckos, 2015plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2014 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Bean Sprouts, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                          * Final Case Count Maps
                          * Final Epi Curve
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Braenderup Infections Linked to Nut Butter, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human Typhimurium Infections Linked to Laboratory Exposure, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Students & Employees in Labs
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chia Powder, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Frozen Feeder Rodents, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Bearded Dragons, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Heidelberg Infections Linked to Tyson Brand Mechanically Separated Chicken, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Institutions
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Stanley Infections Linked to Raw Cashew Cheese, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2013 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Heidelberg Infections Linked to Foster Farms Brand Chicken, 2013plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                          * Timeline of Events
                        * _Salmonella_ Mbandaka Infections Linked to Tahini Sesame Paste, 2013plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Saintpaul Infections Linked to Imported Cucumbers, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Heidelberg Infections Linked to Chicken, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Ground Beef, 2013plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2012 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Bredeney Infections Linked to Peanut Butter, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Hedgehogs, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Braenderup Infections Associated with Mangoes, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Typhimurium and Newport Infections Linked to Cantaloupe, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Ground Beef, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Hadar Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Montevideo Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infantis Infections Linked to Dry Dog Food, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Information for Pet Owners
                          * Information for Veterinarians
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Bareilly and Nchanga Infections Associated with a Raw Scraped Ground Tuna Product, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                          * Timeline of Events
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Outbreaks Diagram
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resource
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Restaurant Chain A, 2012
                      * 2010 through 2011 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to Ground Beef
                        * Heidelberg Infections Linked to Kosher Broiled Chicken Livers
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Turkish Pine Nuts
                        * Heidelberg Infections Linked to Ground Turkey
                        * Agona Infections Linked to Whole, Fresh Imported Papayas
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts and Spicy Sprouts
                        * Altona and Johannesburg Infections Linked to Chicks and Ducklings
                        * Typhimurium Infections Associated with Lab Exposure
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to African Dwarf Frogs
                        * Hadar Infections Associated with Turkey Burgers
                        * Panama Infections Linked to Cantaloupe
                        * I 4,[5],12:i:- Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts
                        * Enteritidis Infections Associated with Shell Eggs
                        * Chester Infections Associated with Cheesy Chicken & Rice Frozen EntrÃ©e
                        * Typhi (Typhoid Fever) Associated with Frozen Mamey Fruit Pulp
                        * Hartford and Baildon Infections Associated with Restaurant Chain A
                        * I 4,[5],12:i:- Linked to Frozen Rodents
                        * Newport Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts
                        * Montevideo Infections Linked to Red and Black Pepper/Italian-Style Meats
                      * 2006 through 2009 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Saintpaul Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pistachio Nuts
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to Peanut Butter
                        * Saintpaul Infections Linked to Raw Produce
                        * Agona Infections Linked to Rice & Wheat Puff Cereal
                        * Litchfield Infections Linked to Cantaloupe
                        * I 4,[5],12:i:- Infections Linked to Pot Pies
                        * Human Schwarzengrund Infections Linked to Dry Pet Food
                        * Wandsworth Infections Linked to Veggie Booty
                        * Tennessee Infections Linked to Peanut Butter
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to Tomatoes
                    * For Health Professionals
                    * Surveillanceplus icon
                      * _Salmonella_ Atlasplus icon
                        * 32 Individual Serotypes Reports
                        * Importance of Serotyping
                        * Snapshots of Serotypes
                    * Communication Materials
                    * Reports & Publicationsplus icon
                      * MMWR Articles
                      * References

Related Links

                    * Multistate Foodborne Outbreaks
                    * Zoonotic Diseases (Diseases from Animals)
                    * Foodborne Illness A-Z
                    * Estimates of Foodborne Illness
                    * Report a Foodborne Illness
                    * Foodsafety.govExternal file_external 
                    * U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External file_external 
                    * USDA Food Safety and Inspection ServiceExternal file_external 

Follow Salmonella

![Sign up for RSS feed.](/salmonella/images/outbreaks/rss-icon.png)

Sign up for RSS Feed

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

