https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/fasd/educators.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/fasd/educators.html    
                Description: This section of our website has tools and information about fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASDs) for educators.    
                Keywords: fasd,  FASDs,  Developmental Milestones,  Childcare Provider Resource Kit,  fetal alcohol syndrome,  fetal alcohol spectrum disorders,  fetal alcohol,  FAS,  alcohol and pregnancy,  CDC, Pregnancy, Alcohol, Fetal Alcohol Syndrome (FAS)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders (FASDs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email
                      * Syndicate

# FASDs: Information for Educators

Minus

Related Pages

![Kids being tutored](/ncbddd/fasd/images/kids_being_tutored.jpg)

This section of our website has tools and information about fetal alcohol
spectrum disorders (FASDs) for educators.

Alcohol and Pregnancy

Find out how drinking alcohol during pregnancy can cause miscarriage,
stillbirth, and a range of lifelong disorders, known as fetal alcohol spectrum
disorders (FASDs).

Adolescent Screening and Substance Useexternal icon

This practice highlight titled " _Adolescent Screening, Brief Intervention,
and Referral to Treatment for Substance Use: An Application for School Social
Workers_ " encourages school social workers to incorporate adolescent
screening, brief intervention, and referral to treatment for substance use.
Highlights are drawn from the resource, Substance Use Screening and
Intervention Implementation Guidepdf iconexternal icon, developed through a
cooperative agreement between the American Academy of Pediatrics and CDC.

Learn basic information about FASDs, including symptoms, diagnosis, and
treatment options.

National Organization on Fetal Alcohol Syndrome (NOFAS)external icon

Strategies, resources, and information for teaching children with FASDs.
Through a partnership with CDC, NOFAS developed a K-12 FASD Education and
Prevention Curriculumexternal icon for teachers to implement with students.
The curriculum provides age-appropriate information about the consequences
that alcohol can have on human development while also encouraging youth to be
tolerant and accepting of all individuals regardless of the person's
individual capabilities or disabilities.

FASD Toolbox for Teachersexternal icon

This toolbox contains strategies and resources for working with children with
FASDs in the classroom setting. This Toolbox is a compilation of advice from
the Marcus Institute and the Maternal Substance Abuse and Child Development
Center at Emory University in Atlanta, Georgia.

Reach to Teach: Educating Elementary and Middle School Children with Fetal
Alcohol Spectrum Disordersexternal icon

A resource for parents and teachers to use in educating elementary and middle
school children with FASDs. The booklet provides a basic introduction to
FASDs, and provides tools to enhance communication between parents and
teachers about schedules, strategies, and problem-solving. This resource was
developed by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration,
FASD Center for Excellence.

Curriculum: Triumph through the Challenges of Fetal Alcohol Syndromeexternal
icon

Double ARC has developed and tested separate training curricula for parents
and teachers. The parent curriculum describes the core deficits of children
with FAS and related conditions, teaches effective parenting techniques
addressing these deficits, and directs parents to service resources for
children, including school programs. The curriculum for teachers describes FAS
and related conditions, ways to recognize children who might have the
condition, and approaches to enhancing school performance. Double ARC has also
created a video on FAS available for use with the curriculum. Double ARC
offers training for facilitators who will be teaching the parent classes.
These materials have been tested with more than 400 participants in sessions
for parents and teachers.

Watch This Video

See one family's story about living with FASDs.

Fetal Alcohol Syndrome Awareness Curriculum for Tribal Justice Systems
Personnelexternal icon

The Preparing a Healthy Path curriculum is designed to inform justice systems'
personnel about FASDs and to provide them with strategies for responding to
persons with FASDs who are involved with the justice system. The curriculum
has been tested with more than 400 participants from tribes in California,
Idaho, Oregon, and Washington.

Science Ambassador Program

The Science Ambassador Program is a unique opportunity for current and future
science teachers to partner with CDC's scientists. As part of the program,
participants develop science Lesson Plans for middle and high school students
on a range of health topics, including FASDs.

![girl reading with mom](/ncbddd/fasd/images/girl-reading-wtih-mom.jpg)

Developmental Milestones

Children should reach milestones in how they play, learn, speak, and act. A
delay in any of these areas could be a sign of a developmental problem, even
an FASD. Visit our webpage to see milestones that children should reach from 3
months to 5 years of age, plus interactive tools for parents and educators to
help keep track of the milestones.

Links to Other Websites

Find more information and resources on FASDs for educators from other
organizations, including research-based tools and approaches to help educators
working with children that have challenging behaviors.

Related Pages

                      * Research
                      * Healthy Pregnancy
                      * Developmental Disabilities
                      * Birth Defects
                      * Alcohol and Public Health
                      * CDC's National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities

Page last reviewed: April 11, 2019

Content source: ï»¿ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home FASD Homepage

                      * Basicsplus icon
                        * Secondary Conditions
                      * Alcohol Use in Pregnancyplus icon
                        * Questions & Answers
                        * Quiz
                      * Interventionsplus icon
                        * Alcohol Screening & Brief Intervention
                        * CHOICES: Preventing Alcohol-Exposed Pregnanciesplus icon
                          * CHOICES as a Strategy
                          * Implementing CHOICES
                          * Frequently Asked Questions
                          * Resources
                          * Articles
                      * Diagnosis
                      * Treatments
                      * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                        * State-Level Estimates 2016
                      * Research & Trackingplus icon
                        * Monitoring Alcohol Use
                        * International Research
                      * Training & Educationplus icon
                        * Online Training
                      * Articles & Key Findingsplus icon
                        * Living with FASD: Brenna
                        * Online Trainings on Alcohol-Free Pregnancy
                        * FASD Awareness
                        * Advise about Risky Alcohol Use
                        * Teen Substance Use & Risks
                      * Materials & Multimediaplus icon
                        * Fact Sheets & Brochures
                        * Posters & Print Ads
                        * Infographicsplus icon
                          * 5 Steps for Alcohol Screening and Counseling
                          * Alcohol Use During Pregnancy
                        * Videos & Podcasts
                        * Widgets
                        * Guidelines & Training
                      * My Story
                      * Information for Specific Groupsplus icon
                        * Women
                        * Families
                        * Healthcare Providers
                        * Educators
                        * Partnersplus icon
                          * Tools Â for Partners
                      * Links to Other Websites
                      * About Us

More CDC Alcohol Topics

                      * CDC Alcohol Portal
                      * Excessive Alcohol Use
                      * Binge Drinking
                      * Drinking & Driving 
                      * Underage Drinking
                      * Alcohol & Pregnancy

Learn more about the FASD Competency-Based Curriculum Development Guide for
Medical and Allied Health Education and  
Practice

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                      * About CDC
                      * Jobs
                      * Funding
                      * Policies
                      * File Viewers & Players

                      * Privacy
                      * FOIA
                      * No Fear Act
                      * OIG
                      * Nondiscrimination
                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * Youtube
                      * Instagram
  

                      * Syndicate
                      * CDC TV
                      * RSS
                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

