https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/fasd/choices-program-prevent-alcohol-exposed-pregnancies.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/fasd/choices-program-prevent-alcohol-exposed-pregnancies.html    
                Description: CHOICES* is a program for women who are not pregnant (but could become pregnant) and who are drinking alcohol at risky levels.     
                Keywords: fasd,  CHOICES ,  Prevent Alcohol-Exposed Pregnancies,  CDC, Pregnancy, Alcohol, Fetal Alcohol Syndrome (FAS)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders (FASDs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email
                      * Syndicate

# CHOICES as a Program to Prevent Alcohol-Exposed Pregnancies

Minus

Related Pages

CHOICES* is a program for women who are not pregnant (but could become
pregnant) and who are drinking alcohol at risky levels. It is an evidence-
based intervention (i.e., based on activities that research has shown to be
valid and effective) that helps women to reduce or stop drinking, use
contraception (birth control) effectively, or both. CHOICES uses motivational
interviewing to increase a woman's motivation and commitment to change.
Participants in CHOICES decide which behavior to focus on to reduce their risk
of an alcohol-exposed pregnancy. It includes two to four counseling sessions
plus a contraceptive counseling session.

CDC funded a randomized controlled trial in three cities in a variety of
community settings. The CHOICES intervention was compared to usual medical
care among 830 women, aged 18-44 years, who were at risk for an alcohol-
exposed pregnancy. At the 9-month follow-up evaluation, over two-thirds (69%)
of women in the CHOICES interventionexternal icon reported reducing their risk
of an alcohol-exposed pregnancy compared to about half (54%) of women in usual
care.

![CHOICES works to prevent alcohol-exposed
pregnancies.](/ncbddd/fasd/images/woman_talking_to_her_doctor.jpg)

CHOICES works to prevent alcohol-exposed pregnancies.

*The CHOICES name was originally an acronym that stood for Changing High-Risk Alcohol Use and Increasing Contraception Effectiveness Study. After the study was completed, the name remains but is no longer spelled out.

Page last reviewed: April 11, 2019

Content source: ï»¿ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home FASD Homepage

                      * Basicsplus icon
                        * Secondary Conditions
                      * Alcohol Use in Pregnancyplus icon
                        * Questions & Answers
                        * Quiz
                      * Interventionsplus icon
                        * Alcohol Screening & Brief Intervention
                        * CHOICES: Preventing Alcohol-Exposed Pregnanciesplus icon
                          * CHOICES as a Strategy
                          * Implementing CHOICES
                          * Frequently Asked Questions
                          * Resources
                          * Articles
                      * Diagnosis
                      * Treatments
                      * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                        * State-Level Estimates 2016
                      * Research & Trackingplus icon
                        * Monitoring Alcohol Use
                        * International Research
                      * Training & Educationplus icon
                        * Online Training
                      * Articles & Key Findingsplus icon
                        * Living with FASD: Brenna
                        * Online Trainings on Alcohol-Free Pregnancy
                        * FASD Awareness
                        * Advise about Risky Alcohol Use
                        * Teen Substance Use & Risks
                      * Materials & Multimediaplus icon
                        * Fact Sheets & Brochures
                        * Posters & Print Ads
                        * Infographicsplus icon
                          * 5 Steps for Alcohol Screening and Counseling
                          * Alcohol Use During Pregnancy
                        * Videos & Podcasts
                        * Widgets
                        * Guidelines & Training
                      * My Story
                      * Information for Specific Groupsplus icon
                        * Women
                        * Families
                        * Healthcare Providers
                        * Educators
                        * Partnersplus icon
                          * Tools Â for Partners
                      * Links to Other Websites
                      * About Us

More CDC Alcohol Topics

                      * CDC Alcohol Portal
                      * Excessive Alcohol Use
                      * Binge Drinking
                      * Drinking & Driving 
                      * Underage Drinking
                      * Alcohol & Pregnancy

Learn more about the FASD Competency-Based Curriculum Development Guide for
Medical and Allied Health Education and  
Practice

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                      * About CDC
                      * Jobs
                      * Funding
                      * Policies
                      * File Viewers & Players

                      * Privacy
                      * FOIA
                      * No Fear Act
                      * OIG
                      * Nondiscrimination
                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * Youtube
                      * Instagram
  

                      * Syndicate
                      * CDC TV
                      * RSS
                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

