

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Disease of the Week

Section Navigation

CDC Home

          * Facebook
          * Twitter
          * LinkedIn
          * Email
          * Syndicate

# Disease of the Week

Minus

Related Pages

Learn key facts, prevention tips and take a quiz to test your knowledge about
common and serious diseases for people of all ages.

Featured Disease of the Week

![Doctor taking notes while talking to patient](/dotw/images/lupus_300px.jpg)

#### Lupus

Lupus occurs when the immune system attacks healthy tissue. It is thought to
be caused by hormones, genetics, and the environment. Symptoms may include
fatigue, joint pain, sun sensitivity, and skin rashes. Treatment can help
manage symptoms.

More

### Topics

          * A
          * B
          * C
          * D
          * E
          * F
          * G
          * H
          * I
          * L
          * M
          * N
          * P
          * R
          * S
          * T
          * W
          * Z

Alcohol & Pregnancy

![Pregnant woman declining glass of wine](/dotw/images/fasd_150px.jpg)

Fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASDs) can occur in an individual who was
exposed to alcohol before birth. Alcohol in the mother's blood passes to the
baby through the umbilical cord and may lead to lifelong physical, behavioral,
and intellectual disabilities.

More

Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS)

![3D image of a brain](/dotw/images/als_150px.jpg)

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), sometimes called Lou Gehrig's disease, is
a progressive disease that attacks the nerve cells that control voluntary
movement. Learn more about the National ALS Registry.

More

Alzheimer's Disease

![Girl with grandfather](/dotw/images/alzheimers_150px.jpg)

Learn more about Alzheimer's disease so you can recognize the differences
between normal aging and changes due to this condition. Better understand the
risks and learn more about possible ways to reduce your risk.

More

Arthritis

![Couple smiling and stretching](/dotw/images/arthritis_150px.jpg)

Walk. Run. Climb steps. Bend. These and other daily activities can be
difficult with arthritis. Symptoms include pain, stiffness, and swelling in or
around the joints. Arthritis affects people of all ages, including children,
and generally affects more women than men.

More

Asthma

![Woman using inhaler](/dotw/images/asthma_150px.jpg)

Inhale. Exhale. We do it every day, but some days are harder if you have
asthma. Both kids and adults can go through repeated bouts of wheezing,
trouble breathing, chest tightness, and nighttime or early morning coughing.

More

Blood Clots

![Mature couple hiking](/dotw/images/blood-clots_150px.jpg)

Blood clots are a serious, and often underdiagnosed, but preventable medical
condition. It is important to know about blood clots because they can happen
to anybody at any age and cause serious illness, disability, and in some
cases, death.

More

Botulism

![Botulism](/dotw/images/botulism_150px.jpg)

Botulism is a rare, but serious illness caused by a germ called Clostridium
botulinum. Even the tiniest amount of botulinum toxin can be deadly. Find out
key facts about botulism and how to prevent it.

More

Breast Cancer

![Three generations of women](/dotw/images/breastcancer_150px.jpg)

Breast cancer is the most common cancer among women in the U.S. and the second
leading cause of cancer-related deaths among women. Test your knowledge about
preventing breast cancer.

More

Carbon Monoxide Poisoning

![Woman sitting in front of fireplace with dog and
laptop](/dotw/images/carbon-monoxide_150px.jpg)

CO poisoning is entirely preventable. You can protect yourself and your family
by acting wisely in case of a power outage and learning the symptoms of CO
poisoning.

More

Cerebral Palsy

![Boy with cerebral palsy](/dotw/images/cerebral-palsy_150px.jpg)

Cerebral palsy is the most common motor disability in childhood, and children
with cerebral palsy and their families need support.

More

Cervical Cancer

![Three women](/dotw/images/cervical-cancer_150px.jpg)

All women are at risk for cervical cancer, although it occurs most often in
women over age 30. Each year, about 12,000 women in the United States get
cervical cancer. Screening tests and a vaccine can help prevent cervical
cancer.

More

Chickenpox (Varicella)

![Father taking son's temperature](/dotw/images/chickenpox_150px.jpg)

Chickenpox is a contagious disease. It causes an itchy rash, fever and
tiredness. Most children with chickenpox completely recover within a week.
However, it can be serious. Two doses of chickenpox vaccine is the best
protection against the disease.

More

Chikungunya

![Mosquito](/dotw/images/chikungunya_150px.jpg)

Chikungunya is a viral disease spread to people by infected mosquitoes.
Symptoms can be debilitating and commonly include a high fever, joint pain and
a rash; usually starting 3-7 days after being bitten. Most people are sick for
a week or longer.

More

Chronic Kidney Disease

![Kidney illustration](/dotw/images/ckd_150px.jpg)

Most people with kidney disease aren't aware they have it. Talk with your
doctor about getting tested for kidney disease. If you have diabetes or high
blood pressure, make a plan to keep your blood sugar and blood pressure under
control.

More

Colorectal Cancer

![Doctor consulting with man and
woman](/dotw/images/colorectalcancer_150px.jpg)

Of cancers affecting both men and women, colorectal (colon) cancer is the
second leading cancer killer in the United States, but it doesn't have to be.
Screening saves lives. If you are 50 years old or older, get screened now.

More

Common Cold

![Girl sneezing into elbow](/dotw/images/common-cold_150px.jpg)

Sore throat and runny nose are usually the first signs of the common cold.
Most people recover within 7-10 days. Reduce your risk of getting a cold by
washing your hands often and avoiding touching your face with unwashed hands.

More

Concussions

![Concussions](/dotw/images/concussions_150px.jpg)

Don't get in over your head and ignore a concussion. A concussion is a type of
traumatic brain injury (TBI) caused by a bump, blow, or jolt to the head. TBIs
can also happen when a fall or blow to the body makes the head and brain move
quickly back and forth.

More

Congenital CMV

![Baby with bright blue eyes](/dotw/images/cmv_150px.jpg)

Learn more about a virus that can cause birth defects.

More

COPD

![Man and woman blowing bubbles](/dotw/images/copd_150px.jpg)

Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease, or COPD, refers to a group of diseases
that cause airflow blockage and breathing-related problems. It includes
emphysema, chronic bronchitis, and in some cases asthma.

More

Dengue

![Mosquito](/dotw/images/dengue_150px.jpg)

​Dengue is spread through Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus mosquito bites,
found throughout the tropical and subtropical regions of the world. These
mosquitoes are aggressive daytime biters.

More

Diabetes

![Familying making healthy dinner](/dotw/images/diabetes_150px.jpg)

Diabetes is a serious disease that affects almost every part of your body,
including your blood vessels, eyes, kidneys, heart, and nerves.

More

Disease Detectives

![Disease Detective](/dotw/images/detectives_150px.jpg)

Called the nation's health protection agency, CDC Disease Detectives are
working 24/7 to protect Americans from health and safety threats, both foreign
and domestic. Whether it's a measles outbreak on a college campus or a global
pandemic, disease detectives look for clues to help figure out what happened
to cause the problem.

More

Ebola

![Ebola](/dotw/images/ebola_150px.jpg)

Ebola is a rare and deadly disease. It is spread through direct contact with
the blood or body fluids of a person who is sick with Ebola. The virus also
can be spread through contact with objects contaminated with the virus, or
infected animals.

More

Enteroviruses

![Girl blowing her nose](/dotw/images/enteroviruses_150px.jpg)

Symptoms of enterovirus infection include coughing, sneezing, and fever.
Serious symptoms include wheezing and trouble breathing. Enterovirus
infections are most common in infants, children, and teenagers.

More

Epilepsy

![Large group of people](/dotw/images/epilepsy_150px.jpg)

Every year, about 140,000 new cases of epilepsy are diagnosed in the United
States. Anyone can have a seizure. Delayed recognition and inadequate
treatment increases the risk for additional seizures, disability, and in rare
instances, death.

More

Flu (Influenza)

![Mother taking daughter's temperature](/dotw/images/flu_150px.jpg)

Influenza (flu) is a contagious respiratory illness caused by influenza
viruses that infect the nose, throat, and lungs. It can cause mild to severe
illness and complications. The best way to prevent the flu is by getting a flu
vaccine each year.

More

Foodborne Diseases

![Family eating dinner](/dotw/images/foodborne_150px.jpg)

Let's eat! But this holiday season, let's eat safely. Don't let foodborne
illness ruin your holiday plans. Whether you're in your kitchen or helping
friends or family in theirs, follow the four simple steps to food safety--
clean, separate, cook, and chill

More

Fragile X

![DNA string](/dotw/images/fragile-x_150px.jpg)

Fragile X syndrome is one of the most common inherited causes of intellectual
disability, which limits a person's ability to learn at an expected level and
function in daily life.

More

Gonorrhea

![Group of young adults](/dotw/images/gonorrhea_150px.jpg)

Anyone who is sexually active can get gonorrhea. Gonorrhea can cause very
serious complications when not treated, but can be cured with the right
medication.

More

Hand, Foot & Mouth Disease

![Baby sucking on big toe](/dotw/images/hand-foot-mouth_150px.jpg)

Hand, foot, and mouth disease is common in infants and young children. It
usually causes fever, painful sores in the mouth, and a rash on the hands and
feet. Wash your hands often and practice good hygiene to reduce your risk of
infection.

More

Hantavirus

![Rat](/dotw/images/hantavirus_150px.jpg)

It's better to feed one cat than many mice ─ especially if those rodents have
hantavirus. Deer mice and other rodents shed the virus in their urine,
droppings, and saliva. Take these prevention tips along with you on your next
camping trip.

More

Heart Disease and Men

![Three men](/dotw/images/heart-disease-men_150px.jpg)

Heart disease is the leading cause of death and a major cause of disability in
the United States. Nearly 600,000 Americans die of heart disease annually.
This represents almost 25% of all deaths in the United States.

More

Hemophilia

![Hemophilia Day logo](/dotw/images/hemophilia_150px.gif)

There are an estimated 20,000 people in the United States living with
hemophilia, and many more globally. Join us to raise awareness about bleeding
disorders and the need to build a family of support for people living with
them.

More

Hepatitis A

![Women eating at restaurant](/dotw/images/hepatitisa_150px.jpg)

Here's a foodborne illness that may not be on your radar. Hepatitis A is
usually spread when a person ingests fecal matter-even in microscopic amounts-
from contact with contaminated food or drinks.

More

Hepatitis C

![Large group of people](/dotw/images/hepatitisc_150px.jpg)

Hepatitis C is a serious liver disease that results from infection with the
Hepatitis C virus. About 75% of people who get infected with the Hepatitis C
virus develop a chronic, or long-term, infection. Many people infected with
Hepatitis C can live for decades.

More

Hepatitis E

![HEV outbreak investigation](/dotw/images/hepatitis-e_150px.jpg)

Learn all about hepatitis E, a different type of a common disease. Hepatitis E
doesn't appear often in the United States, but it is common in many parts of
the world with poor access to safe drinking water and sanitation.

More

HIV AIDS

![Cells](/dotw/images/hiv-aids_150px.jpg)

Around 1.1 million people are living with HIV in the U.S., and 1 in 7 of them
don't know they have it. The only way to know you have HIV is to get tested.
If you are living with HIV, treatment can keep you healthy and protect your
sex partners.

More

Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD)

![Inflammatory Bowel Disease](/dotw/images/ibd_150px.jpg)

In Crohn's disease, inflammation can occur in any part of the gastrointestinal
tract--from the mouth to the anus--but it most often affects the end of the
small intestine where it joins the large intestine. Although patient receives
treatment, they may still experience flare-ups. There also are periods that
patients may not notice any symptoms.

More

Listeriosis

![Cold cuts on cutting board](/dotw/images/listeria_150px.jpg)

About 1,600 people in the United States get sick from _Listeria_ each year.
While the infection is rare, in 2011, an unusual source--cantaloupes
contaminated with _Listeria_ --caused one of the deadliest foodborne outbreaks
in the US.

More

Liver Cancer

![Large family](/dotw/images/livercancer_150px.jpg)

To lower your risk for liver cancer, get vaccinated against Hepatitis B, get
tested for Hepatitis C, and don't drink too much alcohol.

More

Lung Cancer

![Woman breaking cigarette in two](/dotw/images/lungcancer_150px.jpg)

More people in the United States die from lung cancer than any other type of
cancer. This is true for both men and women. The most important thing you can
do to lower your lung cancer risk is to quit smoking and avoid secondhand
smoke.

More

Lupus

![Doctor taking notes while talking to patient](/dotw/images/lupus_150px.jpg)

Lupus occurs when the immune system attacks healthy tissue. It is thought to
be caused by hormones, genetics, and the environment. Symptoms may include
fatigue, joint pain, sun sensitivity, and skin rashes. Treatment can help
manage symptoms.

More

Lyme Disease

![Tick](/dotw/images/lymedisease_150px.jpg)

Beware of the blood suckers. No, not that kind! These are hard to see and can
give you Lyme disease. Called nymphs, these tiny ticks can attach to any part
of the body.

More



Lymphatic Filariasis

![Photo of swollen feet](/dotw/images/lymphatic-filariasis_150px.jpg)

Lymphatic filariasis (LF) is a parasitic neglected tropical disease (NTD)
caused by microscopic, thread-like worms. People with LF can suffer severe and
even permanent disability. LF affects over 120 million people in 72 countries
worldwide.

More

Measles

![Family on vacation](/dotw/images/measles_150px.jpg)

Measles is a highly contagious disease that spreads through the air when an
infected person breathes, coughs, or sneezes. Measles can cause serious health
complications, especially in young children. The best protection is measles
vaccine.

More



Malaria

![Mosquito](/dotw/images/malaria_150px.jpg)

Malaria is spread to people primarily through the bite of an infected
mosquito. It can cause severe illness and even death, but is preventable by
taking medications when traveling to areas with malaria.

More

Norovirus

![Family having dinner](/dotw/images/norovirus_150px.jpg)

Norovirus is the leading cause of diarrhea and vomiting in the United States.
About 20 million people get sick from norovirus each year. The virus is very
contagious and can spread quickly in closed places like long-term care
facilities and schools.

More

Pink Eye

![Boy with pink eye](/dotw/images/pink-eye_150px.jpg)

Pink, itchy eyes? Pink eye - or conjunctivitis - is common and spreads easily.
It sometimes needs medical treatment, depending on the cause. Know the
symptoms, when to seek treatment, and how to help prevent it.

More

Pneumonia

![Young girl with wash cloth on head and thermometer in
mouth](/dotw/images/pneumonia_150px.jpg)

Pneumonia, an infection of the lungs, needlessly affects millions of people
worldwide each year. Pneumonia can often be prevented and can usually be
treated. Lower your risk of pneumonia with vaccines and other healthy living
practices.

More

Polio

![3D representation of a single poliovirus
particle](/dotw/images/polio_150px.jpg)

Polio has been eliminated from the United States thanks to widespread
vaccination. We continue to vaccinate our nation's children knowing that this
crippling and potentially fatal disease still circulates in other parts of the
world and could easily be brought into the U.S.

More

Rabies

![Raccoon](/dotw/images/rabies_150px.jpg)

Rabies is a disease most often spread through the bite of a rabid animal.
Rabies almost always leads to death unless you receive a series of shots
before symptoms even appear--that's why it's important to see a doctor as soon
as you're bitten by an animal.

More

Recreational Water Illnesses

![Three girls swimming](/dotw/images/rwi_150px.jpg)

Knowing the basic facts about recreational water illnesses (RWIs) can make the
difference between an enjoyable time at the pool, beach, or water park, and
getting a rash, having diarrhea, or developing other, potentially serious
illnesses.

More

Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV)

![Mother wiping daughter's nose](/dotw/images/rsv_150px.jpg)

Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is contagious and causes cold-like symptoms.
Most people recover in a week or so, but some can get very sick with pneumonia
or bronchiolitis. There is no RSV vaccine, but there are ways to help prevent
RSV infection.

More

Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever

![Tick](/dotw/images/rmsf_150px.jpg)

Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF) can be a severe and even fatal illness if
not treated in the first few days of symptoms. Learn how to avoid getting
bitten by ticks and which signs and symptoms to watch for after you've been
around ticks.

More

Rotavirus

![Mother and father with infant](/dotw/images/rotavirus_150px.jpg)

Rotavirus can cause severe diarrhea and vomiting in infants and young
children. It spreads easily, and it's hard to prevent rotavirus infection with
just hand washing and good hygiene. Rotavirus vaccine is the best protection.

More

SARS

![Large group of people](/dotw/images/sars_150px.jpg)

Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) is a respiratory illness that
affected many people worldwide in 2003. It was caused by a coronavirus, called
SARS-associated coronavirus (SARS-CoV). SARS was first reported in Asia in
February 2003. The illness spread to 29 countries, where 8,096 people got SARS
and 774 of them died. The SARS global outbreak was contained in July 2003.
Since 2004, there have not been any known cases of SARS reported anywhere in
the world.

More

Scarlet Fever

![Young girl](/dotw/images/scarletfever_150px.jpg)

Scarlet fever results from group A strep infection. If your child has a sore
throat and rash, their doctor can test for strep. Quick treatment with
antibiotics can protect your child from possible long-term health problems.

More

Shingles

![Large family](/dotw/images/shingles_150px.jpg)

Shingles, also called herpes zoster, is a painful skin rash caused by the
varicella zoster virus. You can get shingles at any age, but it's more common
in older adults. Shingles vaccine protects against shingles and the long-term
pain that it can cause.

More

Sickle Cell Disease

![Group of teenagers](/dotw/images/scd_150px.jpg)

In people with sickle cell disease, red blood cells become hard, sticky, and
shaped like a C. The sickle cells die early, leaving a shortage of red blood
cells (anemia). They also clog blood vessels, causing pain and other serious
problems.

More

Skin Cancer

![Father applying sunscreen to daughter's
face](/dotw/images/skincancer_150px.jpg)

Skin cancer is the most common form of cancer in the United States. The two
most common types (basal cell and squamous cell carcinomas) are highly
curable, but the third (melanoma) is more dangerous. Know the risks and
protect yourself.

More

Strep Throat

![Doctor examining girl's throat](/dotw/images/strepthroat_150px.jpg)

Sore throats can be mild or severe. How do you know when it's strep throat?
How should you treat it? Your doctor can do a quick test and provide proper
treatment for a quick recovery.

More

Stroke

![Group of diverse adults](/dotw/images/stroke_150px.jpg)

Stroke is the 5th leading cause of death in the US. A stroke occurs when a
clot blocks the blood supply to part of the brain or when a blood vessel in or
around the brain bursts. In either case, parts of the brain become damaged or
die. Stroke can affect your senses, speech, behavior, thoughts, memory, and
emotions. One side of your body may become paralyzed or weak.

More

Tetanus

![Hand with IV](/dotw/images/tetanus_150px.jpg)

Tetanus infection is caused by bacteria. Inside the body, the bacteria produce
a toxin, or poison, that causes your muscles to tighten and cramp painfully.
Tetanus mainly affects the neck, chest and stomach.

More

West Nile Virus

![Mosquito](/dotw/images/westnilevirus_150px.jpg)

West Nile Virus (WNV) is most often spread by the bite of an infected
mosquito. Mosquitoes become infected when they feed on infected birds. Those
mosquitoes then spread WNV to humans and other animals when they bite.

More

Whooping Cough

![Mother kissing sleeping baby](/dotw/images/whoopingcough_150px.jpg)

Whooping cough--a cough by any other name may not be as deadly! This very
contagious respiratory disease can be serious for anyone, but is life-
threatening in young babies. The best way to prevent whooping cough is to get
vaccinated.

More

Zika

![Pregnant woman](/dotw/images/zika_150px.jpg)

Zika virus is spread to people primarily through the bite of an infected
mosquito. It can also be passed from a pregnant woman to her fetus and through
sexual contact with an infected man.

More

Page last reviewed: April 1, 2020

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Disease of the Week

          * A â Dplus icon
            * Alcohol and Pregnancy
            * ALS
            * Alzheimerâs Disease
            * Arthritis
            * Asthma
            * Blood Clots
            * Botulism
            * Breast Cancer
            * Carbon Monoxide Poisoning (CO)
            * Cerebral Palsy
            * Cervical Cancer
            * Chickenpox (Varicella)
            * Chikungunya
            * Chronic Kidney Disease
            * Colorectal Cancer
            * Common Cold
            * Concussions
            * Congenital CMV
            * COPD
            * Dengue
            * Diabetes
            * Disease Detectives
          * E â Jplus icon
            * Ebola
            * Enteroviruses
            * Epilepsy
            * Flu (Influenza)
            * Foodborne Diseases
            * Fragile X
            * Gonorrhea
            * Hand, Foot & Mouth Disease
            * Hantavirus
            * Heart Disease and Men
            * Hemophilia
            * Hepatitis A
            * Hepatitis C
            * Hepatitis E
            * HIV/AIDS
            * Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD)
          * K â Qplus icon
            * Listeriosis
            * Liver Cancer
            * Lung Cancer
            * Lupus
            * Lyme Disease
            * Lymphatic Filariasis
            * Measles
            * Norovirus
            * Pink Eye
            * Pneumonia
            * Polio
          * R â Zplus icon
            * Rabies
            * Recreational Water Illnesses
            * Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV)
            * Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever
            * Rotavirus
            * SARS (10 Years After)
            * Scarlet Fever
            * Shingles
            * Sickle Cell Disease
            * Skin Cancer
            * Strep Throat
            * Stroke
            * Tetanus
            * West Nile Virus
            * Whooping Cough (Pertussis)
            * Zika

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

          * About CDC
          * Jobs
          * Funding
          * Policies
          * File Viewers & Players

          * Privacy
          * FOIA
          * No Fear Act
          * OIG
          * Nondiscrimination
          * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

          * Facebook
          * Twitter
          * Youtube
          * Instagram
  

          * Syndicate
          * CDC TV
          * RSS
          * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

          * Facebook
          * Twitter
          * LinkedIn
          * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

          * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
          * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
          * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
          * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

