https://www.cdc.gov/cancer/dcpc/resources/newsletter.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/cancer/dcpc/resources/newsletter.htm    
                Description: The monthly Cancer Prevention Works newsletter provides the latest information about activities and accomplishments in CDCâs Division of Cancer Prevention and Control.    
                Keywords: cancer,  prevention,  newsletter,  subscription,  email, Cancer    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Cancer Prevention and Control

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# _Cancer Prevention Works_ Newsletter

Minus

Related Pages

![Cancer Prevention Works](/cancer/dcpc/images/cancer-prevention-
works-300px.jpg)

The monthly _Cancer Prevention Works_ newsletter provides the latest
information about activities and accomplishments in CDC's Division of Cancer
Prevention and Control.

Subscribe

## Latest Issue

March 12, 2020

### New CDC _Vital Signs_ Highlights the Importance of On-Time Screening for
Colorectal Cancer

Every year in the United States, about 140,000 people get colorectal (colon)
cancer. Most new cases (about 90%) occur in people who are age 50 or older.
Colorectal cancer can be prevented with screening, which can find polyps
(abnormal growths) in the colon or rectum so they can be removed before
turning into cancer.

A new CDC _Vital Signs_ reports that only 1 in 2 adults are up-to-date with
colorectal cancer screening by their early 50s (ages 50 to 54), compared to
81% in their early 70s. Early stages of polyps often occur without symptoms.
That's why getting recommended screenings is the key to preventing colorectal
cancer or finding it early, when treatment works best.

There are six different screening test options for colorectal cancer,
including some that can be done at home. Talk to your doctor about a screening
schedule and which test is right for you. Don't wait. Be sure to get screened
on time starting at 50 to prevent or find this cancer early.

Join us in promoting Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month with our colorectal
cancer resources that can help you learn more about your risk, screening, and
test options.

### New Annual Report to the Nation on the Status of Cancer

Across the United States, cancer death rates are decreasing. The new Annual
Report to the Nation on the Status of Cancer finds that for all cancer sites
combined, cancer death rates continued to decline in men, women, adolescents,
and children from 2001 to 2017. Cancer death rates decreased 1.5% on average
per year during 2001 to 2017, decreasing more rapidly among men (1.8% on
average) than among women (1.4% on average). Overall, cancer incidence rates
decreased 0.6% on average per year during 2012 through 2016.

For the first time, this report provides rates and trends for the most common
cancers among children younger than 15 years, and among adolescents and young
adults aged 15 to 39 years. Among children, the most common cancer types were
leukemia, brain and other nervous system cancers, and lymphoma. The most
common cancer among adolescents and young adults was female breast cancer.

### Most Adults Eligible for Lung Cancer Screening Are Not Getting It

Most cancer deaths in the United States are caused by lung cancer. Finding
lung cancer at an early stage when treatment can be more effective may help
reduce deaths related to lung cancer. Lung cancer screening with low-dose
computed tomography (CT) is recommended every year for adults who are 55 to 80
years old, have a history of heavy smoking, and smoke now or have quit within
the past 15 years.

A recent study published in CDC's _Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report_
(MMWR) looks at lung cancer screening data from 10 states. The study found
that 87% of adults who met the screening criteria did not report receiving a
CT scan to check for lung cancer in the last 12 months. Study results suggest
that more efforts to educate health care providers and to provide decision
tools might increase recommended lung cancer screening.

### New Screening Recommendation for Hepatitis C Virus Infection May Help
Reduce Liver Cancers

The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) has released a new
recommendation in screening for hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection.external
icon The USPSTF recommends screening for HCV infection in all adults aged 18
to 79 without known liver disease, symptoms, or risk. This replaces the
previous recommendation in 2013, which recommended screening for HCV infection
only in adults born between 1945 and 1965 and people at high risk for
infection. Most adults need to be screened only once. People with continued
risk such as injection drug use should be screened regularly.

If left untreated, an HCV infection can lead to hepatitis C, a liver disease
that can cause long-term health problems such as liver damage, cirrhosis
(scarring of the liver), and liver cancer. Expanding the age for HCV screening
can help identify infections earlier, when timely treatments may prevent or
reduce liver cancers related to hepatitis C.

### Research Spotlight

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Insurance coverage, employment status, and financial well-being of young women diagnosed with breast cancerexternal icon examines the experiences of young women diagnosed with breast cancer and the challenges in maintaining employment, insurance coverage, and financial stability.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Incidence and public health burden of sunburn among beachgoers in the United Statesexternal icon looks at the relationship between sunburns, a risk factor for skin cancer, and barriers to sun protection in a beach environment.

### Did You Know?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * A colonoscopy is just one type of screening test for colorectal cancer. Several types of screening tests can be used to prevent colorectal cancer or find it early so that treatment works best.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * People who have cancer or have had cancer in the past are at an increased risk for infections because of their weakened immune system. Make sure you keep your hands clean by washing with soap and water to help prevent infections.

Top of Page

## Previous Issue

February 13, 2020

### National Cancer Prevention Month - Take Action to Reduce Your Cancer Risk

February is National Cancer Prevention Month! CDC is dedicated to raising
awareness about cancer and helping you stay healthy. Many cancers can be
prevented and there are actions you can take that lower the risk of getting
cancer. You can lower your risk for many kinds of cancer by quitting smoking,
eating a healthy diet, and getting regular physical activity. Other actions
you can take to lower your risk of cancer include limiting the amount of
alcohol you drink, protecting your skin from ultraviolet (UV) rays, and
getting recommended cancer screenings and vaccinations (HPV vaccine and
Hepatitis B vaccine).

Simple tips like setting small goals and celebrating your progress each day
can help you stay on track with healthy choices that reduce your cancer risk.
Check out our podcasts and learn more about healthy behaviors to help prevent
cancer.

### New Report on Smoking Cessation Released by the Surgeon General

The U.S. Surgeon General has released a new report that shows the latest
evidence on the importance of quitting smoking to improve health. Thirty years
after the first Surgeon General's report on smoking cessation, this report
finds that more than two-thirds of U.S. adult cigarette smokers reported an
interest in quitting smoking. Nearly 34 million American adults currently
smoke cigarettes. Among adult cigarette smokers, past-year quit attempts and
recent and longer-term cessation has increased over the past twenty years.

While cigarette smoking among adults is at an all-time low at 14%, it is still
the leading cause of preventable disease, disability, and death in the United
States. Smoking can cause cancer almost anywhere in the body. Quitting smoking
reduces the risk of many negative health effects, including numerous cancers.

### Cervical Cancer Prevention: Past, Present, and Moving Forward

Cervical cancer can be prevented, and this is largely due to improvements in
screening tests and the development of a vaccine. Dr. Elizabeth Unger, Chief
of the Chronic Viral Diseases Branch in CDC's Division of High-Consequence
Pathogens shares how the science of cervical cancer screening has changed over
the years starting with a focus on early detection and leading to research
showing the connection between human papillomavirus (HPV) and cervical cancer.

Dr. Maureen Miller, Epidemic Intelligence Service Officer with CDC's Division
of Cancer Prevention and Control, highlights the HPV vaccine as a worldwide
prevention strategy and discusses how the improved quality of HPV testing has
made it easier to screen more women.

### What to Know About Dense Breasts and Breast Cancer Risk

A woman's risk for breast cancer is due to a combination of several factors.
One of the factors is having dense breasts. Women with dense breasts have a
higher risk of getting breast cancer. About half of women who are 40 years old
or older have dense breasts. Breast density refers to the amount of fibrous
and glandular tissue in a woman's breasts compared to the amount of fatty
tissue in the breasts. On a mammogram, dense breast tissue and a possible
tumor can both appear white, and it's hard to tell the difference between the
two. More imaging tests are sometimes recommended for women with dense
breasts.

Knowing how breast density can affect your personal risk for breast cancer
shows the importance of staying up-to-date on screenings. Talk with your
doctor about which breast cancer screening tests are right for you and when
you should have them.

### New Blog Post Shares a Cancer Survivor's Perspective

"There was never a moment that I wasn't keenly aware of the danger of
infection and what it would mean for me if I got an infection. I worked hard
to avoid it." In a new blog post, cancer survivor Ronda McCaul Walker, reminds
us how important it is to stay positive and take care of your health,
particularly during chemotherapy treatment. Chemotherapy can reduce the number
of white blood cells you have, which can lead to infections, treatment delays,
hospitalization, and sometimes even death. Based on CDC data, about 650,000
cancer patients receive chemotherapy in an outpatient oncology clinic in the
United States each year and more than 100,000 are hospitalized because of this
side effect.

Ronda's candid reflection on her cancer journey provides tips on how she
avoided getting an infection during chemo and takes us back to one dreary
Valentine's Day when a surprise box of chocolate covered strawberries appeared
on her doorstep and provided her with exactly what she needed.

### Research Spotlight

Breast and Colorectal Cancer Recurrence and Progression Captured by Five U.S.
Population-Based Registries: Findings from National Program of Cancer
Registries Patient-Centered Outcome Researchexternal icon looks at the ability
to capture disease-free (DF) status and cancer outcomes of patients diagnosed
with breast and colorectal cancer.

### Did You Know?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Screening means checking your body for cancer before you have symptoms. Getting screening tests regularly can find abnormal cell changes or growths before they turn into cancer or find cancer early, when treatment is likely to work best.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Overweight and obesity can cause changes in the body that lead to cancer, such as increases in levels or certain hormones and inflammation. Keeping a healthy weight can lower your risk of getting cancer.

Page last reviewed: March 17, 2020

Content source: Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention

home Cancer Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Kinds of Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How to Prevent Cancer or Find It Earlyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Screening Tests
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Vaccines (Shots)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Healthy Choices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cancer Data and Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Tools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Other Cancer Data Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cancer Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Annual Report to the Nationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Healthy People 2020 Targets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer Death Rates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer Incidence Rates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer Among Children, Adolescents, and Young Adults
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Images to Share
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Article Summariesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2018â2019plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cancer in American Indians and Alaska Natives in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Many Older Adults Donât Protect Their Skin From the Sun
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Few People Are Being Screened for Lung Cancer as Recommended
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Rates of Children and Teens Getting Cancer by State or Region
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Use of Colorectal Cancer Screening Tests by State
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * HPV Vaccines and Cervical Precancers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2017plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cancer Survival in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Certain People with Colorectal Cancer Are Less Likely to Get an Important Test
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Race, Sex, and Age Can Make a Difference in Surviving HPV-Associated Cancers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cost of Cancer-Related Neutropenia or Fever Hospitalizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Some Older Women Are Not Getting Recommended Cervical Cancer Screenings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Most Schools Can Do More to Help Students Stay Sun Safe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Indoor Tanning Among Adults in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Parents and Friends Can Influence Teensâ Decisions About Starting Indoor Tanning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Deaths from Colorectal Cancer in U.S. Counties with Lower Education Levels
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Money Worries Affect How Some Cancer Patients Take Prescribed Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Annual Report to the Nation on the Status of Cancer, 1975â2014
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cancer Screening Prevalence Among Adults with Disabilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Economic Evaluation of CDCâs Colorectal Cancer Control Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2016plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State of the Science on Melanoma Prevention and Screening
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Developing a Cost Data Collection Tool for Cancer Registry Planning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Anxiety and Depression Medicine Use Among Cancer Survivors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Breast Cancer Rates Among Black Women and White Women
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Schools Can Help Prevent Skin Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lung Cancer Survivors May Feel Blame
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Colorectal Cancer Screening Capacity in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * New Cases of Melanoma Among Hispanics in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Annual Report to the Nation on the Status of Cancer, 1975â2012
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2015plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cancer Survivorship Supplement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Gallbladder Cancer Incidence and Death Rates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sunscreen Use Among Adults in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Expected New Cancer Cases and Deaths in 2020plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Actual and Projected Cancer Incidence Rates, United States, 1975 to 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Actual and Projected Cancer Death Rates, United States, 1975 to 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Assessment of HPV Types in Cancers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Use of the Persuasive Health Message Framework in a Mammography Promotion Campaign
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * African American Women and Mass Media Campaign Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cancer Survival: The Start of Global Surveillance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Preventing Cancer Across a Lifetimeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer Prevention During Early Life
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer Prevention Among Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer Prevention During Early Adulthood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer Prevention During Midlife
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer Prevention During Older Adulthood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Citation Search Tool
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Risk Factors and Cancerplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Alcohol and Cancerplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Preventing Cancer by Reducing Excessive Alcohol Useplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Community Strategies to Reduce Excessive Alcohol Use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clinical Strategies to Reduce Excessive Alcohol Use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What Comprehensive Cancer Control Programs Can Do to Reduce Excessive Alcohol Use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Potential Partners for Comprehensive Cancer Control Coalitions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * HPV and Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Tobacco and Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Family Health History and Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cancer Survivors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Preventing Infections in Cancer Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cancer and Flu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Resource Libraryplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Videosplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer Survivorship
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Podcasts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Shareable Graphicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Print Materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Featuresplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Breast Cancer Awareness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Breast Cancer in Young Women
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer and Men
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer and Women
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer Prevention Starts in Childhood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer, the Flu, and You
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cervical Cancer Awareness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Colorectal Cancer Awareness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gynecologic Cancer Awareness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * How to Stay Healthy After Cancer Treatment Ends
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Lung Cancer Awareness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Preventing Infections in Cancer Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Prostate Cancer Awareness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Skin Cancer Awareness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * World Cancer Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * _Cancer Prevention Works_ Newsletter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Resources for Health Care Providersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CME Courses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Webinars and Other Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC Medscape Expert Commentaries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Blog Posts: Helpful Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Screening Guidelines and Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About Usplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Leadersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Lisa C. Richardson
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Vicki Benard, PhD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Djenaba A. Joseph
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jacqueline W. Miller
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mona Saraiya, MD, MPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Judith Lee Smith, PhD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Hannah K. Weir, PhD, MSc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mary C. White
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Featured Scientistsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Vicki Benard, PhD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Simone Gray, PhD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ingrid J. Hall, PhD, MPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Donald Haverkamp, MPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jane Henley, MSPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Dawn M. Holman, MPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Commander Djenaba A. Joseph, MD, MPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Stephanie C. Melkonian, PhD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Captain Jacqueline W. Miller, MD, FACS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Behnoosh Momin, DrPH, MS, MPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Lucy A. Peipins, PhD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Lori A. Pollack, MD, MPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Thomas B. Richards, MD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Lisa C. Richardson, MD, MPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Sun Hee Rim, PhD, MPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Elizabeth A. Rohan, PhD, MSW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mona Saraiya, MD, MPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Simple Singh, MD, MPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Judith Lee Smith, PhD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Eric Tai, MD, MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Florence Tangka, PhD, MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Julie Townsend, MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Hannah K. Weir, PhD, MSc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Arica White, PhD, MPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mary C. White, ScD, MFA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Organization Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * National Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Educational Campaigns
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Initiatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDCâs Cancer Genomics Programplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Logic Model

## Stay Informed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * govd

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

