https://www.cdc.gov/std/gonorrhea/arg/carb.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/std/gonorrhea/arg/carb.htm    
                Description: None    
                Keywords: Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Gonorrhea

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Combating the Threat of Antibiotic-Resistant Gonorrhea

Minus

Related Pages

### Antibiotic-Resistant Gonorrhea: A Public Health Threat

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Gonorrhea is the second most commonly reported notifiable disease in the United States.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * There are more than 500,000 reported cases of gonorrhea per year, yet CDC estimates 1.14 million new infections may actually occur each year.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Half of all infections each year are resistant to at least one antibiotic.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Today, the U.S. has just one recommended gonorrhea treatment option remaining.

### The National Strategy: A Roadmap for Combating Antibiotic Resistance

In 2013 CDC released Antibiotic Resistance Threats in the United States, 2013,
the first report to look at the burden and threats posed by antibiotic
resistance on human health. This report named antibiotic-resistant gonorrhea
among the _three most urgent threats_ of its kind in the country. One year
later, the President released an Executive Orderexternal icon and the White
House developed the National Strategy to Combat Antibiotic-Resistant Bacteria
(CARB), both of which call for the prevention, detection, and innovation
against antibiotic resistance..

In March 2015, the White House released the five-year National Action Planpdf
icon for CARB, which outlines steps for implementing the National Strategy. To
meet these national goals, and through federal funding for CARB in fiscal year
2016, CDC's Division of STD Prevention (DSTDP) is supporting a number of new
and continuing activitiespdf icon that aim to slow the development of
antibiotic-resistant gonorrhea and prevent its spread. Gonorrhea control in
the U.S. relies on our ability to detect and treat each case of gonorrhea
quickly and effectively with the right antibiotic; because of this, DSTDP is
taking a multipronged, capacity-building approach to tackle the problem.

### Determining the Best Way to Treat Gonorrhea

In large part, DSTDP makes decisions about national treatment recommendations
using data from the Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance Project (GISP). Gonorrhea
specimens from men with symptoms of urethritis in 26 STD clinics in selected
U.S. cities are collected each month for culture and sent to their local
laboratory for isolation of the bacteria. Regional laboratories in the AR Lab
Network then test these isolates for resistance to the different antibiotics
that are, or were, used to treat gonorrhea. All clinical, epidemiologic, and
laboratory results are then sent to CDC and used to determine the most
effective treatment to recommend for gonorrhea, based on nationwide
susceptibility and resistance patterns and trends.

### Ensuring Individuals Receive Recommended Treatment

To make sure individuals with gonorrhea are receiving CDC's recommended
treatment, DSTDP monitors a representative sample of reported gonorrhea cases
from the STD Surveillance Network (SSuN). SSuN is a sentinel network of 10
geographically diverse state and local health department STD prevention
programs. Directly-funded STD programs also receive support to monitor
gonorrhea treatment practices in their jurisdiction.

### Improving Laboratory Work Central to the Threat Response

CDC's AR Solutions Initiative funds the Antibiotic Resistance Laboratory
Network (AR Lab Network)--a network of public health laboratories that provide
cutting-edge antibiotic resistance laboratory testing for existing and
emerging threats. Since gonorrhea is an important part of CARB activities,
four regional labs in the AR Lab Network are funded to build robust capacity
for culture-based antibiotic susceptibility testing and genomic sequencing.
These labs process up to 20,000 isolates per year from GISP and rapid
detection and response activities. The public health data generated by the AR
Lab Network helps DSTDP better monitor antibiotic resistance in gonorrhea and
inform treatment recommendations and prevention interventions. A select number
of isolates tested by the AR Lab Network are archived in the CDC and FDA
Antibiotic Resistance Isolate Bank. These isolates can be used for developing
diagnostics, antibiotics, and vaccines for gonorrhea, as well as support other
future antibiotic-resistant gonorrhea studies.

### Preparing to Rapidly Detect and Respond to Resistant Gonorrhea Strains

![CARB Sites](/std/gisp/images/CARBsites5.jpg)

Click for larger map

CDC's AR Solutions Initiative is also supporting the multisite activity,
Gonorrhea Rapid Detection and Response, which will develop and strengthen
local and state health department epidemiological, laboratory, and informatics
capacity to more rapidly detect, and quickly and effectively respond to
antibiotic resistance through network analysis of transmission dynamics and
novel interventions. The AR Investment Map shows CDC's key investments to
combat antibiotic resistance, including resistant gonorrhea, across the
nation.

This work is done in many ways, as illustrated by the following key examples:

(1) Hiring and training state and local public health personnel so they have
better tools and systems to respond to emerging threats;  
(2) Increasing epidemiological investigations of gonorrhea cases and their
sexual and social networks to help local jurisdictions better understand
gonorrhea-related transmission dynamics in their area;  
(3) Expanding the use of culture beyond male urethritis in STD clinics, so
that extragenital specimens and specimens from women with gonorrhea are
routinely collected, as well as test-of-cure specimens as needed;  
(4) Exploring different ways to expand gonorrhea culture to sexual and social
networks, populations, and funded jurisdictions where nucleic acid
amplification tests (NAATs) without antimicrobial susceptibility testing
markers are the current gonorrhea diagnostic testing method;  
(5) Establishing Etest capacity as a rapid way to detect susceptibility and
resistance until novel rapid molecular tests are in place; and  
(6) Rapidly providing lab results on resistance to providers and public health
personnel to quickly identify, treat, and stop the spread of resistant
gonorrhea strains.

![gonorrhea%26#37;20bacterium](/std/gonorrhea/images/arg.jpg)

For 30 years, CDC has monitored antibiotic-resistant gonorrhea trends to help
ensure that the recommended drug treatment for gonorrhea is working. With
support from Congress, we arm state and local health departments with the
tools they need to stay a step ahead of resistant gonorrhea - one of the
nation's most urgent public health threats. We also work together with health
departments to enhance their capacity to monitor and test for resistant
gonorrhea and develop rapid response strategies if resistance is detected. See
below for a brief overview of current activities.

![](/std/projects/images/gisp79.jpg)

Established in 1986, the Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance Project (GISP)
monitors U.S. antibiotic resistance trends in gonorrhea. Through the
collaborative effort of selected STD clinics and their local laboratories,
regional laboratories, and CDC, GISP's collected data helps ensure patients
with gonorrhea receive the right antibiotic treatment. GISP monitors
antimicrobial susceptibility of approximately 5,000 male gonococcal urethritis
cases seen in 27 STD clinics.

The **enhanced Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance Project (eGISP)** strengthens
surveillance of resistant gonorrhea and increases state and local capacity to
detect and monitor it. In select STD clinics, eGISP not only collects samples
from men with gonococcal urethritis but also from women and from extragenital
sites. These specimens are sent to regional laboratories for susceptibility
testing.

![](/std/projects/images/ssun-79.jpg)

The STD Surveillance Network (SSuN) is a collaborative network of state,
county and/or city health departments funded by CDC to conduct sentinel and
enhanced STD surveillance activities. The purpose of SSuN is to improve the
capacity of national, state and local STD programs to detect, monitor, and
respond to trends in STDs through enhanced collection, reporting, analysis,
visualization, and interpretation of disease information.

![SURRG logo](/std/gonorrhea/arg/images/SURRGlogo-NoText-transparent-346.png)

Strengthening the United States Response to Resistant Gonorrhea (SURRG) began
in 2016 with three goals: 1) enhance domestic gonorrhea surveillance and
infrastructure; 2) build capacity for rapid detection and response to
resistant gonorrhea through increased culturing and local antibiotic
susceptibility testing; and 3) rapid field investigation to stop the spread of
resistant infections. The project also aims to gain a better understanding of
the epidemiological factors contributing to resistant gonorrhea. Nine
jurisdictions collect and analyze data, helping guide national recommendations
for the public health response to resistant gonorrhea.

![ARLAB Network logo](/std/gonorrhea/arg/images/ARLab-logo-280x130.jpg)

The Antibiotic Resistance Laboratory Network (AR Lab Network) is a network of
public health laboratories equipped to respond to emerging health threats and
provide cutting-edge antibiotic resistance laboratory support. Since gonorrhea
is an important part of these activities, four regional labs in the AR Lab
Network receive funding for culture-based antimicrobial susceptibility testing
and genomic sequencing.

Page last reviewed: November 5, 2019

Content source: Division of STD Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS,
Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention

home Gonorrhea

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Antibiotic Resistance expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Basic Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Laboratory Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Combating the Threat expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CARB Sites Map
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facts & Brochures expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Basic Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Detailed Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Treatment and Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Archive

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

#### Related Topics

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * GISP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Gonorrhea Laboratory Information

STDs Home Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chlamydia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Genital Herpes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Gonorrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * HIV/AIDS & STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Human Papillomavirus (HPV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * STDs & Infertility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * STDs & Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Trichomoniasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Other STDs

#### See Also

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Reproductive Health

**Find an STD testing site near you.**

ZIP Code:  

Follow STD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Social_round_twitter twitter STD on Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Social_round_facebook facebook STD on Facebook

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM

