https://www.cdc.gov/std/gonorrhea/arg/basic.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/std/gonorrhea/arg/basic.htm    
                Description: State and Local Health Alerts, and International Treatment Guidelines.  Antibiotic-Resistant Gonorrhea - STD information from CDC.    
                Keywords: Gonorrhea,  gonorhea,  gonnorhea,  gonorrea,  the clap,  Neisseria gonorrhoeae,  N. gonorrhoeae,  GC,  Facts,  Treatment,  Statistics,  Antimicrobial Resistant,  Antibiotic Resistant,  GISP,  ARG,  STD,  CDC, Gonorrhea and Drug Resistance    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Gonorrhea

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Antibiotic-Resistant Gonorrhea Basic Information

Minus

Related Pages

### Antibiotic-Resistant Gonorrhea: An Overview

Antibiotic resistance is the ability of bacteria to resist the effects of the
drugs used to treat them. This means the bacteria are no longer killed by a
drug that used to kill them before. The bacteria are then free to keep
multiplying. Gonorrhea has developed resistance to nearly all of the
antibiotics used for its treatment. We are currently down to one last
recommended and effective class of antibiotics, cephalosporins, to treat this
common infection. This is an urgent public health threat because gonorrhea
control in the United States largely relies on our ability to successfully
treat the infection.

Gonorrhea is skilled at outsmarting the antibiotics that are used to kill it.
For this reason, we must continuously monitor for antibiotic resistance and
encourage the research and development of new drugs for gonorrhea treatment.

### Surveillance

Surveillance for resistant gonorrhea in the United States is conducted through
several projects: the Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance Project (GISP), the
enhanced Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance Project (eGISP), and Strengthening
the United States Response to Resistant Gonorrhea (SURRG). Antibiotic
susceptibility testing is an activity common to each project.

### Gonorrhea has _decreased susceptibility_ to a given antibiotic when
laboratory results indicate that higher-than-expected levels of an antibiotic
are needed to stop its growth.

The Clinician's Role in Surveillance

Clinicians are asked to report any gonorrhea specimen with **decreased
cephalosporin susceptibility** and any **gonorrhea cephalosporin treatment
failure** to CDC through their state or local public health authority.

In the United States, reports of apparent failures of gonorrhea to respond to
treatment with CDC-recommended therapies should be reported to Sancta St Cyr,
MD, MPH (gispinfo@cdc.gov; 404-718-5447). Surveillance and Data Management
Branch, Division of STD Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, 1600 Clifton Rd. NE, Mailstop E02, Atlanta, GA 30333.

CDC also recommends that isolates from certain infections be submitted to the
_Neisseria_ Reference Laboratory at CDC for confirmation: Cau Pham, PhD,
whi4@cdc.gov, 404-718-5642, _Neisseria_ Reference Laboratory, Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention, 1600 Clifton Rd. NE, Mailstop A12, Atlanta, GA
30333.  These infections comprise those that do not respond to CDC-recommended
therapy. See pg. 6, Recommended Testing and Confirmatory Testingpdf icon for a
complete list.

### Timeline of Antibiotic Resistance and Changing Treatment Recommendations

In 1993, ciprofloxacin, a fluoroquinolone, and two cephalosporins (ceftriaxone
and cefixime) were the recommended treatments for gonorrhea. However, in the
late 1990s and early 2000s, ciprofloxacin resistance was detected in Hawaii
and the West Coast. By 2004, ciprofloxacin- resistant gonorrhea had
significantly increased among men who have sex with men (MSM) leading to the
discontinuation of the drug in this population. By 2006, nearly 14% of
gonorrhea samples were resistant to ciprofloxacin. Ciprofloxacin resistance
was present in all regions of the country and in the heterosexual population.
On April 13, 2007, CDC stopped recommending fluoroquinolones as empiric
treatment for gonorrhea altogether. The cephalosporins, either cefixime or
ceftriaxone, were the only remaining recommended treatments.

Similar to trends observed elsewhere in the world, CDC observed worrisome
trends of decreasing cephalosporin susceptibility. To preserve cephalosporins
for as long as possible, CDC has updated its STD Treatment Guidelines
frequently since 2010. Currently, just one regimen is recommended as first-
line treatment for gonorrhea: the injectable cephalosporin, ceftriaxone,
alongside oral azithromycin.

Gonorrhea's susceptibility to azithromycin has declined in recent years;
however, CDC continues to monitor antibiotic resistance to it, cephalosporins,
and other drugs. An animated video with a historical timeline of drug-
resistant gonorrhea in the U.S. is also available.

### CDC has not received any reports of verified clinical treatment failures
to any cephalosporin in the United States.

See Gonorrhea Statistics.

### Laboratory Challenges

Culture testing is when bacteria is first grown on a nutrient plate and is
then exposed to known amounts of an antibiotic to determine the bacteria's
susceptibility to the antibiotic. A major challenge to monitoring emerging
resistant gonorrhea is the substantial decline in the use of gonorrhea culture
testing by many clinicians, as well as the reduced capability of many
laboratories to perform the gonorrhea culture techniques required for
antibiotic susceptibility testing. The decline in culture testing results from
an increased use of newer laboratory technology, such as a diagnostic test
called the Nucleic Acid Amplification Test (NAAT). Currently, there is no
well-studied, reliable technology that allows for antibiotic susceptibility
testing from nonculture specimens. Increased laboratory culture capacity is
needed.

CDC recommends that all state and local health department labs maintain or
develop the capacity to perform gonorrhea culture, or form partnerships with
experienced laboratories that can perform this type of testing.

See Laboratory Information.

Page last reviewed: November 5, 2019

Content source: Division of STD Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS,
Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention

home Gonorrhea

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Antibiotic Resistance expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Basic Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Laboratory Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Combating the Threat expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CARB Sites Map
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facts & Brochures expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Basic Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Detailed Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Treatment and Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Archive

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

#### Related Topics

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * GISP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Gonorrhea Laboratory Information

STDs Home Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chlamydia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Genital Herpes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Gonorrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * HIV/AIDS & STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Human Papillomavirus (HPV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * STDs & Infertility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * STDs & Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Trichomoniasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Other STDs

#### See Also

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Reproductive Health

**Find an STD testing site near you.**

ZIP Code:  

Follow STD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Social_round_twitter twitter STD on Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Social_round_facebook facebook STD on Facebook

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM

