https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/fasd/features/alcohol-use-during-pregnancy.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/fasd/features/alcohol-use-during-pregnancy.html    
                Description: FASDs are 100% preventable if a woman does not drink alcohol during pregnancy. There is no known safe amount of alcohol to drink while pregnant. There is also no safe time during pregnancy to drink and no safe kind of alcohol.    
                Keywords: fasd,  fetal alcohol syndrome,  fetal alcohol spectrum disorders,  binge drinking,  pregnancy,  drinking and pregnancy,  fetal alcohol spectrum disorder symptoms,  fetal alcohol,  FAS,  alcohol and pregnancy,  CDC, Pregnancy, Alcohol, Fetal Alcohol Syndrome (FAS)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders (FASDs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email
                      * Syndicate

# Key Findings: Alcohol use and binge drinking among pregnant women aged
18â44 years â United States, 2015â2017

Minus

Related Pages

In a new _Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report_ (MMWR) article, CDC
researchers **found that about 1 in 9 pregnant women reported drinking
alcohol* in the past 30 days.** Among pregnant women, about one third who
reported consuming alcohol engaged in binge drinking.†

![Key Findings: Alcohol use and binge drinking among pregnant
women](/ncbddd/fasd/images/Key-Findings-Alcohol-use-and-binge-drinking-among-
pregnant-women.jpg)

Alcohol exposure during pregnancy can be harmful to the brain of a developing
baby and may result in fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASDs). Screening for
alcohol use, combined with brief counseling, may decrease alcohol use during
pregnancy and reduce the risk of FASDs and other negative pregnancy and birth
outcomes.

Read the full scientific article.

**Main Findings**

                      * About 1 in 9 pregnant women reported drinking alcohol* in the past 30 days.
                      * About one third of pregnant women who reported consuming alcohol engaged in binge drinking.†
                      * Pregnant women who reported binge drinking in the past 30 days reported an average of 4.5 binge-drinking episodes during that same time period.

_* Drinking alcohol was defined as having at least one drink of any alcoholic
beverage in the past 30 days._  
_† Binge drinking was defined as having consumed four or more drinks on at
least one occasion in the past 30 days._

Basics about Alcohol Use during Pregnancy

                      * Alcohol use during pregnancy can cause birth defects and developmental disabilities, collectively known as fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASDs). Alcohol use during pregnancy is also linked to other outcomes, such as miscarriage, stillbirth, preterm (early) birth, and sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS).
                      * There is no known safe amount of alcohol use during pregnancy. All types of alcohol can be harmful, including red or white wine, beer, and liquor.
                      * Alcohol can cause problems for a developing baby throughout pregnancy, including before a woman recognizes she is pregnant.
                      * FASDs are preventable if a developing baby is not exposed to alcohol before birth.

**About this Study**

                      * The study uses self-reported data collected from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS), a state-based, landline and cellphone survey of the U.S. population.
                      * To estimate alcohol use and binge drinking for pregnant women aged 18-44 years, data from the 2015-2017 BRFSS were analyzed for all 50 states and the District of Columbia.
                      * Among binge drinkers, the frequency (number of binge drinking episodes in the past 30 days) and intensity (largest number of drinks consumed during any episode in the past 30 days) of binge drinking was also estimated.

### CDC activities: Preventing alcohol exposure during pregnancy and fetal
alcohol spectrum disorders (FASDs)

CDC is working to prevent alcohol exposure during pregnancy with the following
activities:

                      * Estimating how much and how often pregnant women report drinking alcohol;
                      * Supporting the implementation, adoption, and promotion of evidence-based interventions to reduce alcohol use during pregnancy, including alcohol screening and brief counseling;
                      * Promoting effective treatments for children, adolescents, and young adults living with FASDs and their families;
                      * Enhancing healthcare provider education, including free online training courses on preventing FASDs and identifying and caring for people with FASDs;
                      * Offering FASD-related educational information and materials;
                      * Disseminating guidelines on alcohol use, including the Dietary Guidelines for Americansexternal icon; and
                      * Educating and informing the general public and policymakers about effective strategies for reducing excessive alcohol use, such as those recommended by the Community Preventive Services Task Forceexternal icon (e.g., decreasing hours of sale for alcohol).

**More Information**

                      * CDC's Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders website
                      * CDC's Alcohol and Public Health website
                      * CDC's Alcohol Use in Pregnancy website
                      * CDC's Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders: Training and Resources website - online courses and resources for healthcare providers
                      * CDC's Alcohol Screening and Brief Intervention Efforts website - how to implement in primary care
                      * National Organization on Fetal Alcohol Syndrome (NOFAS)external icon



**Key Findings Reference**

Denny CH, Acero CS, Naimi TS, Kim SY. Consumption of alcohol beverages and
binge drinking among pregnant women aged 18-44 years - United States,
2015-2017\. _MMWR Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report_ 2019; 68(16):
365-368. [Read Article]

Page last reviewed: February 27, 2020

Content source: ï»¿ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home FASD Homepage

                      * Basicsplus icon
                        * Secondary Conditions
                      * Alcohol Use in Pregnancyplus icon
                        * Questions & Answers
                        * Quiz
                      * Interventionsplus icon
                        * Alcohol Screening & Brief Intervention
                        * CHOICES: Preventing Alcohol-Exposed Pregnanciesplus icon
                          * CHOICES as a Strategy
                          * Implementing CHOICES
                          * Frequently Asked Questions
                          * Resources
                          * Articles
                      * Diagnosis
                      * Treatments
                      * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                        * State-Level Estimates 2016
                      * Research & Trackingplus icon
                        * Monitoring Alcohol Use
                        * International Research
                      * Training & Educationplus icon
                        * Online Training
                      * Articles & Key Findingsplus icon
                        * Living with FASD: Brenna
                        * Online Trainings on Alcohol-Free Pregnancy
                        * FASD Awareness
                        * Advise about Risky Alcohol Use
                        * Teen Substance Use & Risks
                      * Materials & Multimediaplus icon
                        * Fact Sheets & Brochures
                        * Posters & Print Ads
                        * Infographicsplus icon
                          * 5 Steps for Alcohol Screening and Counseling
                          * Alcohol Use During Pregnancy
                        * Videos & Podcasts
                        * Widgets
                        * Guidelines & Training
                      * My Story
                      * Information for Specific Groupsplus icon
                        * Women
                        * Families
                        * Healthcare Providers
                        * Educators
                        * Partnersplus icon
                          * Tools Â for Partners
                      * Links to Other Websites
                      * About Us

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                      * About CDC
                      * Jobs
                      * Funding
                      * Policies
                      * File Viewers & Players

                      * Privacy
                      * FOIA
                      * No Fear Act
                      * OIG
                      * Nondiscrimination
                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * Youtube
                      * Instagram
  

                      * Syndicate
                      * CDC TV
                      * RSS
                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

