https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/fasd/secondary-conditions.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/fasd/secondary-conditions.html    
                Description: Fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASDs) often lead to other disorders, called âsecondary conditions.â     
                Keywords: fasd,  Fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASDs),  fasds secondary conditions,  Fetal alcohol spectrum disorders secondary conditions,  CDC, Pregnancy, Alcohol, Fetal Alcohol Syndrome (FAS)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders (FASDs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email
                      * Syndicate

# FASDs: Secondary Conditions

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

![woman with hands over face](/ncbddd/fasd/images/woman-with-hands-over-
face.jpg)

Fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASDs) often lead to other disorders, called
"secondary conditions." Secondary conditions are problems that a person is not
born with, but might get as a result of having an FASD. These conditions can
be improved or prevented with appropriate treatments for children and adults
with FASDs and their families.

Following are some of the secondary conditions that have been found to be
associated with FASDs.1, 2

### Mental Health Problems

Several studies have shown an increased risk for cognitive disorders (e.g.,
problems with memory), mental illness, or psychological problems among people
with FASDs.

The most frequently diagnosed disorders are:

                      * Attention problems, including attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
                      * Conduct disorder (aggression toward others and serious violations of rules, laws, and social norms)
                      * Alcohol or drug dependence
                      * Depression

Other psychiatric problems, such as anxiety disorders, eating disorders, and
posttraumatic stress disorder, have also been reported for some patients.

### Disrupted School Experience

Children with FASDs are at a higher risk for being suspended, expelled, or
dropping out of school. Difficulty getting along with other children, poor
relationships with teachers, and truancy are some of the reasons that lead to
their removal from the school setting. Many children with FASDs remain in
school but have negative experiences because of their behavioral challenges.

In a 2004 study, disrupted school experience was reported for 14% of school
children and 61% of adolescents and adults with FASDs. About 53% of the
adolescents with FASDs had been suspended from school, 29% had been expelled,
and 25% had dropped out.

![Gavel ](/ncbddd/fasd/images/gavel_1.jpg)

### Trouble with the Law

Teenagers and adults with FASDs are at a higher risk for having interactions
with police, authorities, or the judicial system. Difficulty controlling anger
and frustration, combined with problems understanding the motives of others,
result in many people with FASDs being involved in violent or explosive
situations. People with FASDs can be very easy to persuade and manipulate,
which can lead to their taking part in illegal acts without being aware of it.
Trouble with the law is reported overall for 14% of children and 60% of
adolescents and adults with FASDs.

### Inappropriate Sexual Behavior

People with FASDs are at higher risk for showing inappropriate sexual
behavior, such as inappropriate advances and inappropriate touching. If the
person with an FASD is also a victim of violence, the risk of participating in
sexually inappropriate behavior increases. Inappropriate sexual behaviors
increase slightly with age from 39% in children to 48% in adolescents and 52%
in adults with FASDs.

![Beer in a glass](/ncbddd/fasd/images/beer-pint-glass.jpg)

### Alcohol and Drug Problems

Studies suggest that more than a third of people with FASDs have had problems
with alcohol or drugs, with more than half of them requiring inpatient
treatment.

###  References

                      1. Streissguth, A.P., Bookstein, F.L., Barr, H.M., Sampson, P.D., O'Malley, K., Young, J.K. Risk factors for adverse life outcomes in fetal alcohol syndrome and fetal alcohol effects. _Developmental and Behavioral Pediatrics_. 2004;5(4):228-238.
                      2. Streissguth, A.P., Barr, H.M., Kogan, J. & Bookstein, F. L., 'Understanding the Occurrence of Secondary Disabilities in Clients with Fetal Alcohol Syndrome (FAS) and Fetal Alcohol Effects (FAE),' Final Report to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), August, 1996, Seattle: University of Washington, Fetal Alcohol & Drug Unit, Tech. Rep. No. 96-06, (1996).

### Dependent Living and Problems with Employment Over 21 Years

Adults with FASDs generally have difficulty sustaining employment or living
independently in their communities.



Related Pages

                      * Healthy Pregnancy
                      * Developmental Disabilities
                      * Birth Defects
                      * Alcohol and Public Health
                      * CDC's National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities

Page last reviewed: April 4, 2017

Content source: ï»¿ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home FASD Homepage

                      * Basicsplus icon
                        * Secondary Conditions
                      * Alcohol Use in Pregnancyplus icon
                        * Questions & Answers
                        * Quiz
                      * Interventionsplus icon
                        * Alcohol Screening & Brief Intervention
                        * CHOICES: Preventing Alcohol-Exposed Pregnanciesplus icon
                          * CHOICES as a Strategy
                          * Implementing CHOICES
                          * Frequently Asked Questions
                          * Resources
                          * Articles
                      * Diagnosis
                      * Treatments
                      * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                        * State-Level Estimates 2016
                      * Research & Trackingplus icon
                        * Monitoring Alcohol Use
                        * International Research
                      * Training & Educationplus icon
                        * Online Training
                      * Articles & Key Findingsplus icon
                        * Living with FASD: Brenna
                        * Online Trainings on Alcohol-Free Pregnancy
                        * FASD Awareness
                        * Advise about Risky Alcohol Use
                        * Teen Substance Use & Risks
                      * Materials & Multimediaplus icon
                        * Fact Sheets & Brochures
                        * Posters & Print Ads
                        * Infographicsplus icon
                          * 5 Steps for Alcohol Screening and Counseling
                          * Alcohol Use During Pregnancy
                        * Videos & Podcasts
                        * Widgets
                        * Guidelines & Training
                      * My Story
                      * Information for Specific Groupsplus icon
                        * Women
                        * Families
                        * Healthcare Providers
                        * Educators
                        * Partnersplus icon
                          * Tools Â for Partners
                      * Links to Other Websites
                      * About Us

More CDC Alcohol Topics

                      * CDC Alcohol Portal
                      * Excessive Alcohol Use
                      * Binge Drinking
                      * Drinking & Driving 
                      * Underage Drinking
                      * Alcohol & Pregnancy

Learn more about the FASD Competency-Based Curriculum Development Guide for
Medical and Allied Health Education and  
Practice

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                      * About CDC
                      * Jobs
                      * Funding
                      * Policies
                      * File Viewers & Players

                      * Privacy
                      * FOIA
                      * No Fear Act
                      * OIG
                      * Nondiscrimination
                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * Youtube
                      * Instagram
  

                      * Syndicate
                      * CDC TV
                      * RSS
                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

