https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/fasd/choices-importance-preventing-alcohol-exposed-pregnancies.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/fasd/choices-importance-preventing-alcohol-exposed-pregnancies.html    
                Description: Many women become pregnant and do not know it until 4 to 6 weeks into the pregnancy and might be unaware they are exposing the baby to alcohol.    
                Keywords: fasd,  fetal alcohol syndrome,  fetal alcohol spectrum disorders,  binge drinking,  pregnancy,  drinking and pregnancy,  fetal alcohol spectrum disorder symptoms,  fetal alcohol,  FAS,  alcohol and pregnancy,  CDC, Pregnancy, Alcohol, Fetal Alcohol Syndrome (FAS)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders (FASDs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email
                      * Syndicate

# CHOICES: Preventing Alcohol Exposed Pregnancies

Minus

Related Pages

Alcohol use during pregnancy is a major public health problem. One in 9
pregnant women reports alcohol use in the past 30 days.

Alcohol use during pregnancy can cause birth defects and developmental
disabilities, collectively known as fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASDs).
Alcohol use during pregnancy is also linked to other outcomes, such as
miscarriage, stillbirth, preterm (early) birth, and sudden infant death
syndrome (SIDS).

Few estimates for the full range of FASDs are available. Based on the National
Institutes of Health-funded community studies using physical examinations,
experts estimate that the full range of FASDs in the United States and some
Western European countries might number as high as 1 to 5 per 100 school
children (or 1% to 5% of the population).

FASDs are one of the leading preventable causes of developmental disabilities
in the United States.

Many women become pregnant and do not know it until 4 to 6 weeks into the
pregnancy. This means they might be drinking and unaware they are exposing the
developing baby to alcohol.

An evidence-based program that works to prevent alcohol-exposed pregnancies is
CHOICES. CHOICES is based on activities that research has shown to be
effective.

Page last reviewed: March 29, 2019

Content source: ï»¿ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home FASD Homepage

                      * Basicsplus icon
                        * Secondary Conditions
                      * Alcohol Use in Pregnancyplus icon
                        * Questions & Answers
                        * Quiz
                      * Interventionsplus icon
                        * Alcohol Screening & Brief Intervention
                        * CHOICES: Preventing Alcohol-Exposed Pregnanciesplus icon
                          * CHOICES as a Strategy
                          * Implementing CHOICES
                          * Frequently Asked Questions
                          * Resources
                          * Articles
                      * Diagnosis
                      * Treatments
                      * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                        * State-Level Estimates 2016
                      * Research & Trackingplus icon
                        * Monitoring Alcohol Use
                        * International Research
                      * Training & Educationplus icon
                        * Online Training
                      * Articles & Key Findingsplus icon
                        * Living with FASD: Brenna
                        * Online Trainings on Alcohol-Free Pregnancy
                        * FASD Awareness
                        * Advise about Risky Alcohol Use
                        * Teen Substance Use & Risks
                      * Materials & Multimediaplus icon
                        * Fact Sheets & Brochures
                        * Posters & Print Ads
                        * Infographicsplus icon
                          * 5 Steps for Alcohol Screening and Counseling
                          * Alcohol Use During Pregnancy
                        * Videos & Podcasts
                        * Widgets
                        * Guidelines & Training
                      * My Story
                      * Information for Specific Groupsplus icon
                        * Women
                        * Families
                        * Healthcare Providers
                        * Educators
                        * Partnersplus icon
                          * Tools Â for Partners
                      * Links to Other Websites
                      * About Us

More CDC Alcohol Topics

                      * CDC Alcohol Portal
                      * Excessive Alcohol Use
                      * Binge Drinking
                      * Drinking & Driving 
                      * Underage Drinking
                      * Alcohol & Pregnancy

Learn more about the FASD Competency-Based Curriculum Development Guide for
Medical and Allied Health Education and  
Practice

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                      * About CDC
                      * Jobs
                      * Funding
                      * Policies
                      * File Viewers & Players

                      * Privacy
                      * FOIA
                      * No Fear Act
                      * OIG
                      * Nondiscrimination
                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * Youtube
                      * Instagram
  

                      * Syndicate
                      * CDC TV
                      * RSS
                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

