https://www.cdc.gov/flu/season/faq-flu-season-2019-2020.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/flu/season/faq-flu-season-2019-2020.htm    
                Description: What you need to know about the upcoming 2019-2020 influenza season     
                Keywords: Flu Season,  Flu Vaccine,  Influenza, Influenza (Flu), Seasonal Flu    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Influenza (Flu)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Frequently Asked Influenza (Flu) Questions: 2019-2020 Season

EspaÃ±ol

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What's new this flu season?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * When should I get vaccinated?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Implications of Cell-Based Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Flu Activity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Protective Actions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Vaccine and Vaccination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Flu Vaccine Effectiveness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * If You Get Sick
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Surveillance

### What's new this flu season?

**A few things are new this season:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Flu vaccines are updated to better match viruses expected to be circulating in the United States. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The A(H1N1)pdm09 vaccine component was updated from an A/Michigan/45/2015 (H1N1)pdm09-like virus to an A/Brisbane/02/2018 (H1N1)pdm09-like virus.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The A(H3N2) vaccine component was updated from an A/Singapore/INFIMH-16-0019/2016 A(H3N2)-like virus to an A/Kansas/14/2017 (H3N2)-like virus.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Both B/Victoria and B/Yamagata virus components from the 2018-2019 flu vaccine remain the same for the 2019-2020 flu vaccine.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * All regular-dose flu shots will be quadrivalent. (No trivalent regular-dose flu shots will be available this season.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * All recombinant vaccine will be quadrivalent. (No trivalent recombinant vaccine will be available this season.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * All four of the vaccine viruses used to produce cell-grown flu vaccine will have been grown in cells, not eggs.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * In January 2019, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved a change in dose volume for Fluzone Quadrivalent, a quadrivalent inactivated influenza vaccine. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The change in dose volume affects children 6 through 35 months of age.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Previously, children in this age group were recommended to receive 0.25 milliliters of this vaccine per dose.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Children 6 through 35 months of age may now receive either 0.25 milliliters or 0.5 milliliters per dose.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * There is no preference for one or the other dose volume for this age group. All persons 36 months (or 3 years) of age and older should receive 0.5 milliliters per dose.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * In October 2018, FDA approved an expanded age indication for Afluria Quadrivalent, a quadrivalent inactivated influenza vaccine. Afluria Quadrivalent is now licensed for children 6 months of age and older. Children 6 months through 35 months of age should receive 0.25 milliliters for each dose. All persons 36 months (or 3 years) of age and older should receive 0.5 milliliters for each dose.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Baloxavir marboxil (trade name Xofluza®) is a new flu single-dose antiviral drug approved October 24, 2018 by FDA. Baloxavir is currently approved by the FDA for treatment of acute uncomplicated influenza within 2 days of illness onset in people 12 years and older who are otherwise healthy, or at high risk of developing influenza-related complications. More information is available here: Influenza Antiviral Drug Baloxavir Marboxil.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * For the 2019-2020 flu season, CDC is offering additional guidance on timing of flu vaccination for both adults and children. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Like last season, CDC and ACIP recommend that vaccination be offered by the end of October. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * For this season, CDC and ACIP provided additional information on what might be considered vaccinating too early. "Vaccinating early - for example, in July or August -may lead to reduced protection against influenza later in the season, particularly among older adults."
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Children 6 months through 8 years of age who need 2 doses should receive their first dose as soon as possible after vaccine becomes available to allow the second dose (which must be administered at least 4 weeks later) to be received by the end of October.

For more information on 2019-2020 influenza vaccine recommendations:
Prevention and Control of Seasonal Influenza with Vaccines: Recommendations of
the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices -- United States, 2019-20
Influenza Season

**What flu vaccines are recommended this season?**

For the 2019-2020 flu season, providers may choose to administer any licensed,
age-appropriate flu vaccine (IIV, RIV4, or LAIV4).

Options this season include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Standard dose flu shots. Like all inactivated influenza vaccines, these are given into the muscle. They are usually given with a needle, but one (Afluria Quadrivalent) can be given to some people (those 18 to 64 years old) with a jet injector.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * High-dose shots for people 65 years and older.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Shots made with adjuvant for people 65 years and older.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Shots made with virus grown in cell culture. No eggs are involved in the production of this vaccine.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Shots made using a vaccine production technology (recombinant vaccine) that does not require the use of flu virus.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Live attenuated influenza vaccine (LAIV). - A vaccine made with attenuated live virus that is given by nasal spray vaccine.

There is a table showing all flu vaccines that are FDA-approved for use in the
United States during the 2019-2020 season.

**What viruses will the 2019-2020 flu vaccines protect against?**

There are many different flu viruses and they are constantly changing. The
composition of U.S. flu vaccines is reviewed annually and updated as needed to
match circulating flu viruses. Flu vaccines protect against the three or four
viruses (depending on the vaccine) that research suggests will be most common.
For 2019-2020, trivalent (three-component) vaccines are recommended to
contain:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * A/Brisbane/02/2018 (H1N1)pdm09-like virus (updated)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * A/Kansas/14/2017 (H3N2)-like virus (updated)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * B/Colorado/06/2017-like (Victoria lineage) virus

Quadrivalent (four-component) vaccines, which protect against a second lineage
of B viruses, are recommended to contain:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * the three recommended viruses above, plus B/Phuket/3073/2013-like (Yamagata lineage) virus.

FDA's Vaccines and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee (VRBPAC)
chooses the flu vaccine viruses for the United States. For 2019-2020 vaccines,
they selected the H1N1 and B components on March 6, 2019.external icon
Selection of the H3N2 component was delayed until March 22, 2019.

**How well-matched are 2019-2020 vaccine viruses to circulating flu viruses?
How well is flu vaccine protecting against illness?**

It's understandable that people want to know how well flu vaccines are working
or are expected to work this season. CDC does not have flu vaccine
effectiveness estimates for this season yet because it is still early in the
season  and these estimates are based on epidemiologic studies comparing
illness among vaccinated versus unvaccinated people. That data will be
available later.

In the meantime, laboratory data can provide some insight into how well
vaccines might work. The most helpful data for this is the antigenic
characterization data, which are updated weekly in FluView. Limited antigenic
data on recently circulating viruses are available at this point in the
season, and the data suggest similarity of the circulating influenza
A(H1N1)pdm09 and B/Yamagata viruses tested so far to the vaccine viruses.
However, the influenza B/Victoria and A(H3N2) viruses that have been tested
show some reduced similarity to the vaccine viruses. Again, at this point in
the flu season, the antigenic data are limited and can only give early
insights into how well vaccines might work. More information about how CDC
antigenically characterizes flu viruses is available, and more complete
antigenic data will be available in the coming weeks.

During past seasons when vaccine viruses were antigenically "like" most
circulating viruses, vaccine effectiveness in the range of 40% to 60% has been
observed. This means that people who get vaccinated may still get sick, but
they are about half as likely to get sick as someone who was not vaccinated.
Another important thing to remember is that vaccination may make illness less
severe in people who get vaccinated and still get sick. In general people who
get vaccinated are better off than people who do not get vaccinated. It's
important to remember though, that things can change very quickly with flu and
we could still see circulation of flu viruses with significant antigenic drift
this season.

More information regarding flu vaccine effectiveness is available below.

### When should I get  vaccinated?

Because the timing of the onset, peak and end of flu seasons varies from year
to year and cannot be predicted, it is difficult to say when is the best time
to be vaccinated for any one season. In trying to balance the need to get many
people vaccinated before flu activity begins with concerns about potential
waning of vaccine-induced immunity during the flu season, CDC and ACIP
recommend that vaccination be offered by the end of October.

Children 6 months through 8 years of age who need 2 doses should receive their
first dose as soon as possible after the vaccine becomes available to allow
the second dose (which must be administered at least 4 weeks later) to be
received by the end of October.

For people who need only one dose for the season, vaccinating early - for
example, in July or August -may lead to reduced protection against flu later
in the season, particularly among older adults. While vaccination should
optimally occur before the onset of flu activity in the community, providers
should continue to offer and encourage vaccination as long as flu viruses are
circulating and unexpired vaccine is available. To avoid missed opportunities
for vaccination, vaccination can be offered during routine health care visits
and hospitalizations.

**Can I get a flu vaccine if I am allergic to eggs?**

The recommendations for people with egg allergies are unchanged and as
follows:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Persons who are able to eat lightly cooked egg (e.g., scrambled egg) without reaction are unlikely to be egg-allergic.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Persons who have experienced only hives after exposure to egg should receive any licensed, recommended, age-appropriate flu vaccine (i.e., IIV, RIV4, or LAIV4).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Persons reporting symptoms other than hives after exposure to egg (such as angioedema, respiratory distress, lightheadedness, or recurrent emesis; or who required epinephrine or another emergency medical intervention) may also receive any licensed and recommended flu vaccine that is otherwise appropriate. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Additionally, for these persons, vaccine should be administered in an inpatient or outpatient medical setting and supervised by a health care provider who is able to recognize and manage severe allergic reactions.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * A previous severe allergic reaction to flu vaccine, regardless of the component suspected of causing the reaction, is a contraindication to future receipt of the vaccine.

### Implications of Cell-Based Vaccines

**Why is it significant that cell-grown vaccine viruses are used to produce
one flu vaccine?**

Cell-grown vaccine viruses do not have changes that may be present in egg-
grown reference viruses, so they should be more similar to circulating "wild-
type" viruses. Vaccine effectiveness depends in part on the match between the
vaccine virus and circulating flu viruses.

**Is flu vaccine made using a cell-grown vaccine virus and cell-based
technology more effective than vaccine made using an egg-grown vaccine virus
and egg-based technology?**

While the use of cell-grown vaccine viruses and cell-based technology may
offer the potential for better protection over traditional, egg-based flu
vaccines because they result in vaccine viruses that are more similar to flu
viruses in circulation, there are no vaccine effectiveness data to support
this. There is no preferential recommendation for one flu vaccine over
another.

Top of Page

### Flu Activity

**What sort of flu season is expected this year?**

Influenza is unpredictable. While flu spreads every year, the timing,
severity, and length of the season varies from one season to another.

**Will new flu viruses circulate this season?**

Flu viruses are constantly changing so it's not unusual for new flu viruses to
appear each year. More information about how flu viruses change is available.

**Will the United States have a flu epidemic?**

The United States experiences annual epidemics of seasonal flu. This time of
year is called "flu season." In the United States, flu viruses are most common
during the fall and winter months. Flu activity often begins to increase in
October and November. Most of the time flu activity peaks between December and
February, and it can last as late as May. CDC monitors certain key flu
indicators (for example, outpatient visits of influenza-like illness (ILI),
the results of laboratory testing and reports of flu hospitalizations and
deaths). When these indicators rise and remain elevated for a number of
consecutive weeks, "flu season" is said to have begun. Usually ILI increases
first, followed by an increase in flu-associated hospitalizations, which is
then followed by increases in flu-associated deaths.

For the most current flu surveillance information: Weekly U.S. Influenza
Surveillance Report.

**When will flu activity begin and when will it peak?**

The timing of flu is unpredictable and can vary in different parts of the
country and from season to season. Seasonal flu viruses can be detected year-
round; however, seasonal flu activity often begins as early as October and
November and can continue to occur as late as May. Flu activity most commonly
peaks in the United States between December and February.

### Protective Actions

**What should I do to protect myself from flu this season?**

CDC recommends a yearly flu vaccine for everyone 6 months of age and older as
the first and most important step in protecting against this potentially
serious disease.

In addition to getting a seasonal flu vaccine, you can take everyday
preventive actions like staying away from sick people and washing your hands
to reduce the spread of germs. If you are sick with flu, stay home from work
or school to prevent spreading flu to others. In addition, there are
prescription medications called antiviral drugs that can be used to treat flu
illness.

**What should I do to protect my loved ones from flu this season?**

Encourage your loved ones to get vaccinated. Vaccination is especially
important for people at high risk of developing flu complications, and their
close contacts. Also, if you have a loved one who is at high risk of
developing flu complications and they get flu symptoms, encourage them to seek
medical attention for possible treatment with a flu antiviral drug. These
drugs work best if given within 48 hours of when symptoms start. CDC
recommends that people who are at high risk of developing serious flu
complications and who get flu symptoms during flu season be treated with flu
antiviral drugs as quickly as possible without waiting for confirmatory
testing. People who are not at high risk of developing serious flu
complications may also be treated with flu antiviral drugs, especially if
treatment can begin within 48 hours.

**Do some children require two doses of flu vaccine?**

As in previous seasons, some children 6 months through 8 years of age will
need 2 doses of flu vaccine this season. Children in this age group who have
not previously received two or more total doses of _any_ trivalent or
quadrivalent flu vaccine (including the nasal spray vaccine) before July 1,
2019, or whose vaccination history is not known, need two doses of 2019-2020
flu vaccine administered at least 4 weeks apart.

For 8-year-olds who need two doses, the second dose is recommended even if the
child turns 9 years of age between receipt of dose 1 and dose 2. Children in
this age group who have received two or more total doses of trivalent or
quadrivalent flu vaccine before July 1, 2019 need only one dose for this
season.

**What can I do to protect children who are too young to get vaccinated?**

Children younger than 6 months old are at high risk of serious flu
complications, but are too young to get a flu vaccine. Because of this,
safeguarding them from flu is especially important. If you live with or care
for an infant younger than 6 months old, you should get a flu vaccine to help
protect them from flu. Advice for Caregivers of Young Children is available
for more information. Everyone else who is around the baby also should be
vaccinated. Also, studies have shown that flu vaccination of the mother during
pregnancy can protect the baby after birth from flu infection for several
months.

In addition to getting vaccinated, you and your loved ones can take everyday
preventive actions like staying away from sick people and washing your hands
to reduce the spread of germs. If you are sick with flu, stay home from work
or school to prevent spreading flu to others.

Top of Page

### Vaccine and Vaccination

**How much flu vaccine will be available this season?**

Flu vaccine is produced by private manufacturers, so supply depends on
manufacturers. For the 2019-2020 season, manufacturers have projected they
will provide as many as 162 million to 169 million doses of flu vaccine, which
is similar to projected supply for last season. Flu vaccine supply updates
will be provided as they become available at Seasonal Influenza Vaccine &
Total Doses Distributed.

**Are any of the available flu vaccines recommended over the others?**

For the 2019-2020 flu season, ACIP recommends annual flu vaccination for
everyone 6 months and older with any licensed, age-appropriate flu vaccine
(IIV, RIV4, or LAIV4) with no preference expressed for any one vaccine over
another.

There are many vaccine options to choose from; the most important thing is for
all people 6 months and older to get a flu vaccine every year. If you have
questions about which vaccine is best for you, talk to your doctor or other
health care professional.

**Why is the nasal spray being recommended as an option this year when it has
been shown to not be effective in past flu seasons?**

Flu vaccine effectiveness (VE) can vary from year to year, among different age
and risk groups, by vaccine type, and even by virus type and subtype. While
data from 2010-2011 through 2016-2017 indicated that nasal spray vaccine
lacked effectiveness among 2 through 17-year-olds against H1N1 viruses in the
U.S., nasal spray vaccine was effective against influenza B viruses, and was
similarly effective against H3N2 viruses as inactivated influenza vaccines.
Since the 2018-2019 season, the manufacturer of nasal spray vaccine has used a
new H1N1 vaccine virus in production. Some data suggest this will result in
improved effectiveness of against H1N1. However, no published effectiveness
estimates for this vaccine component against H1N1 viruses are available. ACIP
and CDC voted to resume the recommendation for the use of nasal spray vaccines
based on evidence suggesting that the new H1N1 component will result in
improved effectiveness of the vaccine against these viruses. There is no
expressed preference for any flu shot or the nasal spray vaccine.

**Where can I get a flu vaccine?**

Flu vaccines are offered by many doctor's offices, clinics, health
departments, pharmacies and college health centers, as well as by many
employers, and even by some schools.

Even if you don't have a regular doctor or nurse, you can get a flu vaccine
somewhere else, like a health department, pharmacy, urgent care clinic, and
often your school, college health center, or work.

The HealthMap Vaccine Finderexternal icon helps you to locate where you can
get a flu vaccine.

**What is flu vaccination using a jet injector?**

FDA has approved one flu vaccine (Afluria Quadrivalent) for administration by
a jet injector device (the PharmaJet Stratis 0.5ml Needle-free Jet Injector)
for people 18 through 64 years of age. These are the only two flu vaccines
approved for administration by jet injector. People aged 18 through 64 years
may receive this vaccine either by jet injector or needle. A jet injector is a
medical device used for vaccination that uses a high-pressure, narrow stream
of fluid to penetrate the skin instead of a hypodermic needle. More
information about Flu Vaccination by Jet Injector is available.

**What is adjuvanted flu vaccine?**

The FDA licensed a seasonal flu vaccine containing adjuvant for adults 65
years of age and older. An adjuvant is an ingredient added to a vaccine to
create a stronger immune response to vaccination. FLUAD™Cdc-pd [155 KB, 13
pages]external icon was licensed in November 2015 and will be available during
the 2019-2020 flu season. It includes the MF59 adjuvant, an oil-in-water
emulsion containing squalene oil. FLUAD™ is the first adjuvanted seasonal flu
vaccine marketed in the United States.

**Can I get vaccinated and still get flu?**

Yes. It's possible to get sick with flu even if you have been vaccinated
(although you won't know for sure unless you get a flu test). This is possible
for the following reasons:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You may be exposed to a flu virus shortly before getting vaccinated or during the period that it takes the body to gain protection after getting vaccinated. This exposure may result in you becoming ill with flu before the vaccine begins to protect you. (Antibodies that provide protection develop in the body about 2 weeks after vaccination.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You may be exposed to a flu virus that is not included in the seasonal flu vaccine. There are many different flu viruses that circulate every year. A flu vaccine is made to protect against the three or four flu viruses that research suggests will be most common.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Flu vaccine varies in how well it works, and unfortunately, some people can become infected with a flu virus that a flu vaccine is designed to protect against, despite getting vaccinated. Protection provided by flu vaccination can vary widely, based in part on health and age factors of the person getting vaccinated. It also can vary based on the match between the vaccine viruses used to produce vaccine and circulating viruses that season. In general, a flu vaccine works best among healthy younger adults and older children. Some older people and people with certain chronic illnesses may develop less immunity after vaccination. Flu vaccination is not a perfect product, but it is the best way to protect against flu infection.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Even if you do get the flu after being vaccinated, some studies have shown that a flu vaccine can reduce the severity of your illness. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * A 2017 study showed that flu vaccination reduced deaths, intensive care unit (ICU) admissions, ICU length of stay, and overall duration of hospitalization among hospitalized flu patients.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * A 2018 studyexternal icon showed that among adults hospitalized with flu, vaccinated patients were 59 percent less likely to be admitted to the ICU than those who had not been vaccinated. Among adults in the ICU with flu, vaccinated patients on average spent 4 fewer days in the hospital than those who were not vaccinated.

Top of Page

### Flu Vaccine Effectiveness

**How effective will flu vaccines be this season?**

It's not possible to say in advance exactly how well the flu vaccine will work
this season. How well it works can vary by season, virus type/subtype, the
kind of vaccine, and age and other host factors of the people being
vaccinated. At least two factors play an important role in determining the
likelihood that flu vaccines will protect a person from flu illness: 1)
characteristics of the person being vaccinated (such as their age and health),
and 2) the similarity or "match" between the flu viruses in the vaccine and
those spreading in the community.

During years when the viruses in the flu vaccine and circulating flu viruses
are well matched, it's possible to measure substantial benefits from flu
vaccination in terms of preventing flu illness. However, even during years
when the vaccine match is good, the benefits of flu vaccination will vary
across the population, depending on host factors like the health and age of
the person being vaccinated and even potentially which flu vaccine was used.

Recent studies by CDC researchers and other researchers suggest that flu
vaccination usually reduces the risk of influenza illness by 40% to 60% among
the overall population when the vaccine viruses are like the ones spreading in
the community.

For more information about vaccine effectiveness, click here.

**Will this season 's flu vaccine be a good match for circulating viruses?**

It's not possible to predict with certainty if a flu vaccine will be a good
match for circulating flu viruses. A flu vaccine is made to protect against
the flu viruses that research and surveillance indicate will likely be most
common during the season. However, scientists must pick which flu viruses to
include in a flu vaccine many months in advance in order for flu vaccines to
be produced and delivered on time. Also flu viruses change constantly (called
"drift"). They can change from one season to the next or they can even change
within the course of one flu season. Another factor that can impact vaccine
effectiveness, especially against influenza A(H3N2) viruses, are changes that
can occur in vaccine viruses as they are grown in eggs, which is the
production method for most current flu vaccines. Because of these factors,
there is always the possibility of a less than optimal match between
circulating flu viruses and the viruses in a flu vaccine.

Over the course of flu season, CDC studies samples of circulating flu viruses
to evaluate how close a match there is between viruses used to make the flu
vaccine and circulating flu viruses.

One of the ways that helps CDC evaluate the match between flu vaccine viruses
and circulating flu viruses is with a lab process called 'genetic and
antigenic characterization'. Results of genetic and antigenic characterization
testing are published weekly in CDC's FluView.

**Can a flu vaccine provide protection even if the flu vaccine is not a "good"
match?**

Yes, antibodies made in response to vaccination with one flu virus sometimes
can provide protection against different but related flu viruses. A less than
ideal match may result in reduced vaccine effectiveness against the flu virus
that is different from what is in the flu vaccine, but it might still provide
some protection against flu illness.

In addition, it's important to remember that a flu vaccine contains three or
four flu viruses (depending on the type of vaccine you receive) so that even
when there is a less than ideal match or lower effectiveness against one
virus, a flu vaccine may protect against the other flu viruses.

For these reasons, even during seasons when there is a less than ideal match,
CDC continues to recommend flu vaccination for everyone 6 months and older.
Vaccination is particularly important for people at high risk for serious flu
complications, and their close contacts.

Top of Page

### If You Get Sick

**What happens in the body when someone has flu?**

Flu viruses usually infect the respiratory tract (i.e., the airways of the
nose, throat and lungs). As the infection progresses, the body's immune system
responds to fight the virus. This results in inflammation that can trigger
respiratory symptoms such as cough and sore throat. The immune system response
also can trigger fever and cause muscle or body aches. When infected people
cough, sneeze, or talk, they can spread flu viruses in respiratory droplets to
people who are nearby. People might also get flu by touching a contaminated
surface or object that has flu virus on it and then touching their own mouth
or nose.

Most people who become sick will recover in a few days to less than two weeks,
but some people may become more severely ill. Following flu infection,
moderate complications such as secondary ear and sinus infections can occur.
Pneumonia is a serious flu complication that can result from either flu virus
infection alone or from co-infection of flu virus and bacteria. Other possible
serious complications triggered by flu can include inflammation of the heart
(myocarditis), brain (encephalitis) or muscle (myositis, rhabdomyolysis)
tissues, and multi-organ failure (for example, respiratory and kidney
failure). Severe complications can happen to anyone, but may be more likely to
happen to people who have certain chronic medical conditions, or in elderly
persons.

**What should I do if I get sick with flu?**

Most people with flu have mild illness and do not need medical care or
antiviral drugs. If you get sick with flu symptoms, in most cases, you should
stay home and avoid contact with other people except to get medical care.

If, however, you have symptoms of flu and are at high risk of flu
complications, or are very sick or concerned about your illness, contact your
health care provider. There are drugs your doctor may prescribe for treating
flu called antivirals. These drugs can make you better faster and may also
prevent serious complications.

Antiviral drugs are prescription drugs that can be used to treat flu illness.
People at high risk of serious flu complications recommended for prompt
antiviral treatment include children younger than 2 years of age (although all
children younger than 5 years are considered at higher risk for complications
from flu, the highest risk is for those younger than 2 years of age), adults
65 years of age and older, pregnant women, people with certain long-term
medical conditions, and residents of nursing homes and other long-term care
facilities). Antiviral treatment as early as possible is also recommended for
people who are very sick with flu (such as those with complicated, progressive
illness or people hospitalized because of flu). Other people can be treated
with antivirals at their health care professional's discretion. Treating high
risk people or people who are very sick with flu with antiviral drugs is very
important. Studies show that prompt treatment with antiviral drugs can prevent
serious flu complications. Prompt treatment can mean the difference between
having a milder illness versus very serious illness that could result in a
hospital stay.

Treatment with antivirals works best when begun within 48 hours of getting
sick. However, treatment can still be beneficial when given later in the
course of illness. Antiviral drugs are effective across all age and risk
groups. Studies show that antiviral drugs are under-prescribed for people who
are at high risk of complications who get flu. Four FDA-approved antiviral
medications are recommended for use during the 2019-2020 flu season:
oseltamivir (available in generic versions and under the trade name Tamiflu®),
zanamivir (Relenza®), peramivir (Rapivab®), and baloxavir marboxil (Xofluza®).
More information about antiviral drugs can be found at Treatment - Antiviral
Drugs. This guidance is consistent with the 2019-2020 flu season
recommendationsexternal icon published by the Infectious Diseases Society of
America (IDSA) on December 19, 2018, in  _Clinical Infectious Diseases_.

"The Flu: What To Do If You Get Sick"

**What is baloxavir marboxil?**

Baloxavir marboxil (trade name Xofluza®) is a flu single-dose antiviral drug
approved October 24, 2018 by the FDA. Baloxavir is approved for the treatment
of acute uncomplicated flu in people 12 years and older who have had flu
symptoms for less than 48 hours. In clinical randomized trials, baloxavir was
similar to oseltamivir, a currently recommended flu antiviral drug, in
alleviating flu symptoms.

More information regarding baloxavir is available: Influenza Antiviral Drug
Baloxavir Marboxil.

Top of Page

### Surveillance

**How does CDC track flu activity?**

The Epidemiology and Prevention Branch in the Influenza Division at CDC
collects, compiles and analyzes information on flu activity year round in the
United States and produces FluView, a weekly flu surveillance report, and
FluView Interactive, which allows for more in-depth exploration of flu
surveillance data. The U.S. flu surveillance system is a collaborative effort
between CDC and its many partners in state, local, and territorial health
departments, public health and clinical laboratories, vital statistics
offices, healthcare providers, clinics, and emergency departments. Information
in five categories is collected from eight different data sources that allow
CDC to:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Find out when and where flu activity is occurring
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Track flu-related illness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Determine what flu viruses are circulating
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Detect changes in flu viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Measure the impact flu is having on hospitalizations and deaths in the United States

For more information, visit "Overview of Influenza Surveillance in the United
States".

**What will CDC do to monitor flu vaccine effectiveness for the 2019-2020
season?**

CDC collaborates with partners each season to assess how well the seasonal flu
vaccines are working. During the 2019-2020 season, CDC is planning multiple
studies on the effectiveness of flu vaccines. Researchers conduct these
studies each year to measure how well flu vaccines work in order to
continually assess and confirm their value as a public health measure.

Part of the need for this continued assessment is that flu viruses that
circulate each year tend to change and evolve, and so the components of the
flu vaccine are changed relatively frequently to protect against these new
circulating viruses. A summary of CDC's latest vaccine effectiveness estimates
is available at Seasonal Influenza Vaccine Effectiveness, 2005-2018.

**What is CDC doing to monitor antiviral resistance in the United States
during the 2019-2020 season?**

Antiviral resistance means that a virus has changed in such a way that
antiviral drugs are less effective or not effective at all in treating or
preventing illnesses with that virus. CDC will continue to collect and monitor
flu viruses for changes through an established network of domestic and global
surveillance systems. CDC also is working with the state public health
departments and the World Health Organization to collect additional
information on antiviral resistance in the United States and worldwide. The
information collected will assist in making informed recommendations regarding
use of antiviral drugs to treat flu.

Top of Page

 **How does CDC estimate the burden of seasonal flu on the United States?**

The burden of flu on the United States can vary widely from season to season
and is determined by a number of factors including the characteristics of
circulating viruses, the timing of the season, population immunity to
circulating viruses, how well flu vaccines are working, and how many people
have gotten vaccinated. While the impact of flu varies, it places a
substantial burden on the health of people in the United States each year.

CDC uses a model to estimate the numbers of flu illnesses, medical visits, and
hospitalizations in the United States (as well as the impact of flu
vaccination on these numbers). The same model is also extended to estimate
flu-related deaths in the United States. This methodology has been used to
retroactively calculate flu burden, including deaths, going back to 2010.

Beginning with the 2018-2019 flu season, CDC began reporting cumulative, in-
season estimates of the burden of flu. These Preliminary In-Season Burden
Estimates will be provided when activity has been sufficient to generate a
stable estimate, and will be updated weekly over the course of the flu season.

**How does CDC classify flu season severity?**

In 2017, CDC adopted and outlined a new methodology for determining flu season
severity. Based on data from past flu seasons, CDC researchers used key flu
indicator data to develop intensity thresholds (ITs) to classify the severity
of flu seasons.

Based on the intensity thresholds, CDC researchers classified seasonal
severity from 2003-2004 through the 2018-2019 flu seasons. Overall, four
seasons were classified as low severity, eight as moderate, three as high, and
none as very high.

**What is flu forecasting?**

Flu places a significant disease burden on the U.S. population each year, but
the magnitude and timing varies from season to season, making the annual
impact difficult to predict at the beginning of each season. Flu forecasting
may help predict when the start, peak, and increases in flu activity will
occur. Unlike CDC's traditional influenza surveillance systems, which measure
flu activity after it has occurred, flu forecasting offers the possibility to
look into the future and better plan ahead, potentially reducing the impact of
flu and can potentially be used to prepare for and prevent illness,
hospitalization, and death, as well as the economic burden, experienced during
a flu epidemic. When forecasts accurately predict flu activity, the ability to
more effectively plan for public health responses to seasonal flu epidemics
and future influenza pandemics is possible.

Flu forecasting aims to predict the characteristics of influenza seasons
before disease activity occurs and is captured by the U.S. influenza
surveillance system. Since the 2013-2014 flu season, the Influenza Division at
CDC has worked with CDC's Epidemic Prediction Initiative (EPI) and external
researchers to improve the science and usability of flu forecasting by
coordinating flu forecasting challenges. Recently, these challenges have been
extended to state-level predictions and forecasting hospitalization rates.

During 2018-2019, CDC began summarizing and publicly posting flu forecasts.
For the 2019-2020 flu season, CDC will continue to display weekly the
forecasts received through the EPI.

Learn more about flu forecasting by visiting
https://www.cdc.gov/flu/weekly/flusight/index.html.

Top of Page

Page last reviewed: January 17, 2020

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD)

home Seasonal Influenza (Flu)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About Fluplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What You Need to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * When is Flu Season
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * How Flu Spreads
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Understanding Influenza Viruses plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Types of Influenza Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * How Flu Viruses Can Change
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Antigenic Characterization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Genetic Characterization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reconstruction of the 1918 Influenza Pandemic Virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Advanced Molecular Detection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Burden of Influenzaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Preliminary In-Season 2019-2020 Burden Estimates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * How CDC Estimates Burden
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Why CDC Estimates the Burden of Flu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Past Seasons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * How CDC Classifies Flu Severity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Glossary of Influenza (Flu) Terms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Questions & Answers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Who is at High Risk for Flu Complicationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adults 65 & Over
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Pregnant Womenplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Flu Vaccine Safety and Pregnant Women
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Asthma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Heart Disease & Stroke
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * HIV/AIDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What Parents Need to Knowplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Caregivers of Infants
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Young Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Children With Neurologic Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Children and Antiviral Drugs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mixing Oseltamivir Capsules for Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Flu Seasonplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What You Need to Know for 2019-20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Past Flu Seasonsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2018-2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2017-2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2016-2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2015-2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2014-2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2013-2014
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2012-2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2011-2012
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2010-2011
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2009-2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2007-2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2006-2007
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Prevent Fluplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * How to Prevent Fluplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Preventive Actions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Key Facts About Flu Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Who Needs a Flu Vaccine & Whenplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Who Should & Who Should NOT Get Vaccinated
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Vaccine Benefitsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Publications on Vaccine Benefits 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Different Flu Vaccinesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Flu Shot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Live Attenuated Influeza Vaccine (LAIV)/Nasal Spray Vaccine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Quadrivalent Influenza Vaccine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * High-Dose Flu Vaccine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adjuvanted Flu Vaccine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cell-Based Flu Vaccine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Recombinant Flu Vaccine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Intradermal Flu Vaccine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Flu Vaccination by Jet Injector
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * How Flu Vaccines are madeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Advancements in Influenza Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Selecting Viruses for the Seasonal Influenza Vaccine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Projects to Improve Flu Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Flu Vaccine Safetyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Vaccine Safety Questions & Answers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Febrile Seizures Following Vaccination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Flu Vaccine and People with Egg Allergies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guillain-BarrÃ© Syndrome (GBS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Thimerosal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Misconceptions about Flu Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Healthy Habits to Help Prevent Flu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Vaccine Supply & Distributionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Vaccine Supply for 2019-2020 Season
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Frequently Asked Questions on Vaccine Supply
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Historical Reference of Vaccine Doses Distributed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Flu Vaccines Workplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * How Well Flu Vaccines Work
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDCâs Vaccine Effectiveness Networksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * US Flu VE Network
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Hospitalized Adult Influenza Vaccine Effectiveness Network (HAIVEN)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * How Vaccine Effectiveness and Efficacy are Measured
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Why CDC Estimates Vaccine Effectiveness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Vaccine Effectiveness Studiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2019-2020 Vaccine Effectiveness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Past Seasons Vaccine Effectivenessplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * VE Tables for 2011-12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * VE Tables for 2012-13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * VE Tables for 2013-14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * VE Tables for 2014-15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * VE Tables for 2015-16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * VE Tables for 2016-17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * VE Tables for 2017-18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * VE Tables for 2018-19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Flu Burden Averted from Vaccinationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * How CDC Estimates Burden Averted
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Why CDC Estimates Burden Averted
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Past Seasons Burden Averted Estimates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Symptoms & Diagnosis plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Flu Symptoms & Complicationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What People with a Staph Infection Should Know about Flu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Difference Between Cold and Flu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What You Need to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What are Flu Antiviral Drugsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Antiviral Drug Resistance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Baloxavir Marboxil
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What to do if You Get Sick
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Caring for Someone Sick
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Schools, Businesses & Travelersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Schools & Childcare Providersplus icon __
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance for School Administrators
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cleaning & Disinfecting Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * School-Located Vaccination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Business & Employersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Prevent Flu in the Workplace
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Promoting Vaccination in the Workplace
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources for Hosting a Vaccination Clinic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Stay Home When Sick
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Flu Activity & Surveillanceplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDCâs WHO Collaborating Center
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Overview of Influenza Surveillance in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Current United States Flu Activity Map
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Weekly U.S. Influenza Surveillance Report (FluView)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FluView Interactive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Past Weekly Surveillance Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FluSight: Flu Forecastingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDCâs Flu Forecasting Efforts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * How CDC Uses Flu Forecasting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Why CDC Supports Flu Forecasting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Past Flu Seasons Flu Forecasting Accuracy Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Professionalsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Care Workers Need A Flu Vaccine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * ACIP Recommendationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2019-20 ACIP Background
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Background and Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2019-20 ACIP Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Vaccinationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Flu Vaccination & Miscarriage 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Table of Approved Vaccines for 2019-2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Vaccine Dosage & Administration
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * For Clinicians: Vaccination Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * For Clinicians: Vaccine Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Large-Scale Influenza Vaccination Clinic Planning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reallocating Influenza Vaccine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Vaccination Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Make a Strong Flu Vaccine Recommendation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tools to Prepare Your Practice for Flu Season
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Sample Social Media Posts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Information for Clinicians on Influenza Virus Testingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview of Influenza Testing Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Information on Collection of Respiratory Specimens for Influenza Virus Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Clinical Signs & Symptoms of Influenza
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Symptoms & Laboratory Diagnosis 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Information for Clinicians on Rapid Diagnostic Testing for Influenza
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Rapid Influenza Diagnostic Tests (RIDTs)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance: Use of Rapid Diagnostic Test 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Information on Rapid Molecular Assays, RT-PCR, and other Molecular Assays for Diagnosis of Influenza Virus Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nucleic Acid Detection Based Tests
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Medical Office Telephone Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Parotitis and Influenza 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQ Parotitis and Influenza 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Algorithm: Interpreting Influenza Testing Results When Influenza is Circulating
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Algorithm: Interpreting Influenza Testing Results When Influenza is NOT Circulating
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guide: Considering Influenza Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guide: Influenza Diagnostic Testing in Closed Setting Outbreaks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Information for Laboratoriesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Rapid Diagnostic Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance: Standard-Based Electronic Laboratory Reporting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Influenza Virus Testing Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Antiviral Drugsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * For Clinicians: Antiviral Medication 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Types of Antiviral Drugs 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Antiviral Guidance Reference Material 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance: Antiviral and Obstetric Health Care 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Antiviral Drug Supply
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infection Controlplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidelines for Healthcare Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Respiratory Infection Control Measures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance: Outbreak Management in Long-Term Care Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance: Use of Mask to Control Influenza Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance: Prevention & Control in Peri- and Postpartum Settings 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Toolkit for Long-Term Care Employers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Trainings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Professional References & Resources 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Flu News & Spotlightsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 2018-2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 2017-2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 2016-2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 2015-2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 2014-2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 2013-2014
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 2012-2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 2011-2012
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 2010-2011
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 2009-2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Whatâs New

What CDC Does

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FluVaxView
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Communications Resource Center
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * International Work
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Outbreak Investigations

email_03Get Email Updates

To receive weekly email updates about Seasonal Flu, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

![H1N1 Flu Pandemic 2009-2019: A Decade Later](/flu/images/H1N1-web-
badge-02.png)

Influenza Types

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Seasonal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pandemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Avian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Swine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Influenza in Animals

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM

