https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/fasd/interventions.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/fasd/interventions.html    
                Description: CDC promotes two strategies to reduce the number of alcohol-exposed pregnancies â  alcohol screening and brief intervention (SBI) and CHOICES.     
                Keywords: alcohol screening and brief intervention (SBI), CHOICES,fasd, fetal alcohol, FAS, CDC, FASD prevention efforts    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders (FASDs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email
                      * Syndicate

# Interventions: FASD Prevention Efforts

Minus

Related Pages

![Teenage Girl Visits Doctor's Office](/ncbddd/fasd/images/teen-girl-with-
doctor-500px.jpg)

CDC promotes two strategies to reduce the number of alcohol-exposed
pregnancies -  alcohol screening and brief intervention (SBI) and CHOICES.
Broadening CDC's FASD prevention efforts to include both alcohol SBI and
CHOICES provides the opportunity to offer both brief and extended intervention
options to women of reproductive age as appropriate, and to address risky
alcohol use within the broader context of women's health.

Women report that the drinking behavior of their partner, family members, and
friends are strong influences on their alcohol consumption.

Providing alcohol SBI to all individuals-- men, women, and adolescents--might
normalize discussion of alcohol use and begin to reduce the stigma associated
with getting help.

**Alcohol screening and brief intervention (SBI)** is an effective but
underused preventive health service recommended by the U.S. Preventive
Services Task Force and covered under the Affordable Care Act. Similar to
hypertension or cholesterol screening, alcohol SBI can occur as part of a
patient's wellness visit.

It involves:

                      * A validated set of screening questions to identify a patient's drinking patterns, which takes only a few minutes.
                      * A short conversation with patients who are drinking too much, and referral to specialized treatment as appropriate.
                      * CDC has developed an Alcohol SBI Implementation Guide to help staff in primary care practices plan and implement alcohol SBI to reduce alcohol use. The guide also presents information on risky alcohol use and how it can be addressed through alcohol SBI.

CHOICES is an evidence-based counseling intervention (i.e., based on
activities that research has shown to be valid and effective) for non-pregnant
women that helps them reduce or stop their drinking, use contraception
effectively, or both. CHOICES uses motivational interviewing to increase a
woman's motivation and commitment to change.

Related Pages

                      * Research
                      * Healthy Pregnancy
                      * Developmental Disabilities
                      * Birth Defects
                      * Alcohol and Public Health
                      * CDC's National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities

Page last reviewed: May 10, 2018

Content source: ï»¿ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home FASD Homepage

                      * Basicsplus icon
                        * Secondary Conditions
                      * Alcohol Use in Pregnancyplus icon
                        * Questions & Answers
                        * Quiz
                      * Interventionsplus icon
                        * Alcohol Screening & Brief Intervention
                        * CHOICES: Preventing Alcohol-Exposed Pregnanciesplus icon
                          * CHOICES as a Strategy
                          * Implementing CHOICES
                          * Frequently Asked Questions
                          * Resources
                          * Articles
                      * Diagnosis
                      * Treatments
                      * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                        * State-Level Estimates 2016
                      * Research & Trackingplus icon
                        * Monitoring Alcohol Use
                        * International Research
                      * Training & Educationplus icon
                        * Online Training
                      * Articles & Key Findingsplus icon
                        * Living with FASD: Brenna
                        * Online Trainings on Alcohol-Free Pregnancy
                        * FASD Awareness
                        * Advise about Risky Alcohol Use
                        * Teen Substance Use & Risks
                      * Materials & Multimediaplus icon
                        * Fact Sheets & Brochures
                        * Posters & Print Ads
                        * Infographicsplus icon
                          * 5 Steps for Alcohol Screening and Counseling
                          * Alcohol Use During Pregnancy
                        * Videos & Podcasts
                        * Widgets
                        * Guidelines & Training
                      * My Story
                      * Information for Specific Groupsplus icon
                        * Women
                        * Families
                        * Healthcare Providers
                        * Educators
                        * Partnersplus icon
                          * Tools Â for Partners
                      * Links to Other Websites
                      * About Us

More CDC Alcohol Topics

                      * CDC Alcohol Portal
                      * Excessive Alcohol Use
                      * Binge Drinking
                      * Drinking & Driving 
                      * Underage Drinking
                      * Alcohol & Pregnancy

Learn more about the FASD Competency-Based Curriculum Development Guide for
Medical and Allied Health Education and  
Practice

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                      * About CDC
                      * Jobs
                      * Funding
                      * Policies
                      * File Viewers & Players

                      * Privacy
                      * FOIA
                      * No Fear Act
                      * OIG
                      * Nondiscrimination
                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * Youtube
                      * Instagram
  

                      * Syndicate
                      * CDC TV
                      * RSS
                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

