https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/fasd/widget/getwidget.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/fasd/widget/getwidget.html    
                Description: Help spread the word about Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders and how to prevent them! Add the FASD widget to your website.    
                Keywords: fasd, CDC.gov widget, Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders , CDC,    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders (FASDs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email
                      * Syndicate

# Alcohol Use During Pregnancy Widget

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                      * Information about widgets
                      * Share this widget
                      * Disclaimer
                      * More CDC widgets

### Information about widgets

A widget is a CDC.gov application that displays the featured content directly
on your web page. You can embed content in personalized home pages, blogs, and
other sites. Once you've added the widget, there's no technical maintenance.
CDC.gov will update the content automatically.

Adding a CDC.gov widget to your page means that you will have up-to-date,
credible health and safety content in your favorite spaces - no more searching
or browsing! Stay informed about the health content that is most meaningful to
you. To add it to your site, simply cut and paste the html code below into
your Web page.

### Share

Help spread the word about Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders and how to prevent
them! To add the widget, copy the code next to the widget and paste it into
your Web page.

Your browser does not support iFrames.

Copy code:  
<p> <iframe src="https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/fasd/widget/FASD_Widget.html"
width="225" height="495" scrolling="no" seamless="seamless" name="FASD Widget"
title="FASD Widget" style="border:none;" frameborder="0">Your browser does not
support iFrames.</iframe> </p>

### Disclaimer

Placement of the CDC.gov widget is to be used only as a marker to the CDC.gov
site and a channel for CDC.gov content. The use of a widget, gadget or link
does not indicate any form of endorsement or approval from CDC, the
Coordinating Center for Health Information and Service, the National Center
for Health Marketing, or the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.

### Get More CDC Widgets

More CDC.gov Widgets and Gadgets are available!

Page last reviewed: March 29, 2018

Content source: ï»¿ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home FASD Homepage

                      * Basicsplus icon
                        * Secondary Conditions
                      * Alcohol Use in Pregnancyplus icon
                        * Questions & Answers
                        * Quiz
                      * Interventionsplus icon
                        * Alcohol Screening & Brief Intervention
                        * CHOICES: Preventing Alcohol-Exposed Pregnanciesplus icon
                          * CHOICES as a Strategy
                          * Implementing CHOICES
                          * Frequently Asked Questions
                          * Resources
                          * Articles
                      * Diagnosis
                      * Treatments
                      * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                        * State-Level Estimates 2016
                      * Research & Trackingplus icon
                        * Monitoring Alcohol Use
                        * International Research
                      * Training & Educationplus icon
                        * Online Training
                      * Articles & Key Findingsplus icon
                        * Living with FASD: Brenna
                        * Online Trainings on Alcohol-Free Pregnancy
                        * FASD Awareness
                        * Advise about Risky Alcohol Use
                        * Teen Substance Use & Risks
                      * Materials & Multimediaplus icon
                        * Fact Sheets & Brochures
                        * Posters & Print Ads
                        * Infographicsplus icon
                          * 5 Steps for Alcohol Screening and Counseling
                          * Alcohol Use During Pregnancy
                        * Videos & Podcasts
                        * Widgets
                        * Guidelines & Training
                      * My Story
                      * Information for Specific Groupsplus icon
                        * Women
                        * Families
                        * Healthcare Providers
                        * Educators
                        * Partnersplus icon
                          * Tools Â for Partners
                      * Links to Other Websites
                      * About Us

More CDC Alcohol Topics

                      * CDC Alcohol Portal
                      * Excessive Alcohol Use
                      * Binge Drinking
                      * Drinking & Driving 
                      * Underage Drinking
                      * Alcohol & Pregnancy

Learn more about the FASD Competency-Based Curriculum Development Guide for
Medical and Allied Health Education and  
Practice

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                      * About CDC
                      * Jobs
                      * Funding
                      * Policies
                      * File Viewers & Players

                      * Privacy
                      * FOIA
                      * No Fear Act
                      * OIG
                      * Nondiscrimination
                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * Youtube
                      * Instagram
  

                      * Syndicate
                      * CDC TV
                      * RSS
                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

