https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/fasd/partners.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/fasd/partners.html    
                Description: To help increase education, awareness, and research about fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASDs), we partner with many organizations, professionals    
                Keywords: fasd. fasds,  fas,  CDC,  preventing FASDs,  fetal alcohol spectrum disorders,  Friends of NCBDDD, Fetal Alcohol Syndrome (FAS)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders (FASDs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email
                      * Syndicate

# FASDs: Information for Partners

Minus

Related Pages

To help increase education, awareness, and research about fetal alcohol
spectrum disorders (FASDs), we partner with many organizations, professionals,
and other individuals in these efforts.

![Figurines holding hands around a globe](/ncbddd/shared-images/folic-
partners.jpg)

### Get Involved

If you teach, work, or know women who are pregnant or could possibly become
pregnant, you are part of the solution to help prevent FASDs. Also, if you
work on behalf of people with FASDs and their families, you, too, can help
raise awareness about this important public health issue.

##### Spread the Word

                      * FASDs are preventable if a woman does not drink alcohol during pregnancy. There is no known amount of alcohol that is safe to drink while pregnant. There is also no safe time to drink during pregnancy and no safe kind of alcohol to drink while pregnant. Tell others about the importance of not drinking alcohol during pregnancy.
                      * Distribute free educational materials. CDC has free brochures, fact sheets, and other materials.

##### Listen to This Podcast and Share Them With Others

CDC Vital Signs-Alcohol and Pregnancy: Why Take the Risk?

##### September is FASD Awareness Month

FASD Awareness Month is an expansion of FASD Awareness Day that has been held
each year on September 9th since 1999. People all around the world gather for
events to raise awareness about the dangers of drinking during pregnancy and
the challenges individuals and families can face who are living with FASDs.
The first FASDay was celebrated on 9/9/99. This day was chosen so that on the
ninth day of the ninth month of the year, the world will remember that during
the nine months of pregnancy, the safest option is to abstain from alcohol. In
2016, FASD Day was expanded to make September FASD Awareness Month.

Visit the FASD Awareness Monthexternal icon Website for more information and
ideas for getting involved.

Watch This Video

![The Story of Iyal](/ncbddd/fasd/images/iyal-video.JPG)

See one family's story about living with FASDs.

##### Link Your Website to Ours

For your convenience, we have provided the following graphic and linking
description for you to post on your website.

![pregnant woman holding glass](/ncbddd/fasd/images/pregnant-woman-holding-
wine-glass.jpg)

There is no known safe amount of alcohol to drink while pregnant. Visit

CDC's website to learn more.

Copy and paste the code on your site.

<img src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/fasd/images/pregnant-woman-holding-wine-
glass.jpg" alt="Pregnant woman holding wine glass with the glass crossed out"
width="150″ height="126″ style="float:left" /><br /><br /></p><br /><br /><br
/><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br />  
<p> </p><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br
/><br /><br />  
<p><span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px;
overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start"></span>;p>There is
no known safe amount of alcohol to drink while pregnant.&nbsp; Visit <a
href="http://www.cdc.gov/fasd">CDC's website</a> to learn more.</p>

### Friends of NCBDDD

The Friends of NCBDDD is a coalition of government and private sector
organizations who work together to enhance the mission and activities of the
National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities. If you would
like to become a partner and receive the newsletter, email updates, and other
information, please visit the Friends of NCBDDD websiteexternal icon.

Related Pages

                      * Information for Healthcare Providers
                      * Healthy Pregnancy
                      * Developmental Disabilities
                      * Birth Defects
                      * Alcohol and Public Health
                      * CDC's National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities

Page last reviewed: March 27, 2018

Content source: ï»¿ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home FASD Homepage

                      * Basicsplus icon
                        * Secondary Conditions
                      * Alcohol Use in Pregnancyplus icon
                        * Questions & Answers
                        * Quiz
                      * Interventionsplus icon
                        * Alcohol Screening & Brief Intervention
                        * CHOICES: Preventing Alcohol-Exposed Pregnanciesplus icon
                          * CHOICES as a Strategy
                          * Implementing CHOICES
                          * Frequently Asked Questions
                          * Resources
                          * Articles
                      * Diagnosis
                      * Treatments
                      * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                        * State-Level Estimates 2016
                      * Research & Trackingplus icon
                        * Monitoring Alcohol Use
                        * International Research
                      * Training & Educationplus icon
                        * Online Training
                      * Articles & Key Findingsplus icon
                        * Living with FASD: Brenna
                        * Online Trainings on Alcohol-Free Pregnancy
                        * FASD Awareness
                        * Advise about Risky Alcohol Use
                        * Teen Substance Use & Risks
                      * Materials & Multimediaplus icon
                        * Fact Sheets & Brochures
                        * Posters & Print Ads
                        * Infographicsplus icon
                          * 5 Steps for Alcohol Screening and Counseling
                          * Alcohol Use During Pregnancy
                        * Videos & Podcasts
                        * Widgets
                        * Guidelines & Training
                      * My Story
                      * Information for Specific Groupsplus icon
                        * Women
                        * Families
                        * Healthcare Providers
                        * Educators
                        * Partnersplus icon
                          * Tools Â for Partners
                      * Links to Other Websites
                      * About Us

More CDC Alcohol Topics

                      * CDC Alcohol Portal
                      * Excessive Alcohol Use
                      * Binge Drinking
                      * Drinking & Driving 
                      * Underage Drinking
                      * Alcohol & Pregnancy

Learn more about the FASD Competency-Based Curriculum Development Guide for
Medical and Allied Health Education and  
Practice

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                      * About CDC
                      * Jobs
                      * Funding
                      * Policies
                      * File Viewers & Players

                      * Privacy
                      * FOIA
                      * No Fear Act
                      * OIG
                      * Nondiscrimination
                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * Youtube
                      * Instagram
  

                      * Syndicate
                      * CDC TV
                      * RSS
                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

