https://www.cdc.gov/flu/professionals/acip/background-epidemiology.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/flu/professionals/acip/background-epidemiology.htm    
                Description: None    
                Keywords: Influenza (Flu), Influenza Vaccination    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Influenza (Flu)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Background and Epidemiology

EspaÃ±ol

minus icon

Pages in this Report

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Background and Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Immunogenicity, Efficacy, and Effectiveness of Influenza Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Safety of Influenza Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * References
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Table

Minus

Related Pages

### Influenza Viruses and Vaccine Composition

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Influenza Viruses and Vaccine Composition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Seasonality and Burden of Influenza Illness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Information on Specific Populations

Among humans, annual epidemic influenza illness is caused by two types of
influenza viruses, influenza A and influenza B (1).  Influenza virus types A
and B are further subclassified through serologic and genetic testing.  For
influenza A viruses, differences in two viral surfaces glycoproteins,
hemagglutinin (HA) and neuraminidase (NA), permit categorization into
different subtypes.  In the nomenclature of influenza A viruses, these
different HA and NA proteins are represented by the letters "H" and "N",
respectively.  Since the late 1970s, influenza A(H1N1) and influenza A(H3N2)
have been the common influenza A viral subtypes circulating among humans (2).
Influenza B viruses are separated into two distinct genetic lineages (Yamagata
and Victoria) on the basis of differences in the HA glycoprotein.  Influenza B
viruses from both lineages have co-circulated during most influenza seasons
since the 1980s (3, 4).

Influenza viruses undergo constant genetic change, which has substantial
impact on induced immunity and considerations for vaccine composition.  Two
main types of changes are recognized.  Point mutations and recombination
events occur in the viral genome, resulting in constant emergence of new virus
variants.  This phenomenon is termed "antigenic drift" (1, 2).   While it
occurs among both influenza A and B viruses, influenza A viruses undergo
antigenic drift more rapidly than influenza B viruses (5).  Frequent emergence
of antigenic variants through antigenic drift is the virologic basis for
seasonal influenza epidemics, and necessitates consideration of adjustment of
vaccine viruses each season.

In addition to antigenic drift, larger genetic change events, termed
"antigenic shift", can occur among influenza A viruses. Antigenic shift occurs
less frequently than antigenic drift, and generally arises though genetic
reassortment among different viruses.  These events can lead to new or
substantially different influenza A viruses, for which there is little pre-
existing immunity in the population.  Such viruses can be associated with
widespread pandemic influenza illness, if they exhibit efficient and sustained
transmission among humans (1).  In April 2009, a novel influenza A(H1N1) virus
caused the most recent worldwide pandemic. This virus was antigenically
distinct from human influenza A(H1N1) viruses in circulation from 1977 through
spring 2009 (6, 7).

Each season, viruses belonging to influenza A subtypes A(H1N1) and A(H3N2) and
to both B lineages co-circulate (1, 2).  Natural infection and vaccination
induce the production of antibodies to influenza HA and NA surface
glycoproteins, which reduce likelihood of infection (8).  However, antibodies
produced against one influenza virus type or subtype confer limited or no
protection against another type or subtype (9).

Currently available seasonal influenza vaccines are either trivalent or
quadrivalent in composition.  Trivalent vaccines contain HA derived from one
A(H1N1) virus, one A(H3N2) virus, and one B virus (representing one influenza
B lineage).  Quadrivalent vaccines have the same HA composition as trivalent
vaccines, with the addition of HA from a second influenza B virus (such that
both influenza B lineages are represented).

### Seasonality and Burden of Influenza Illness

The exact timing of the onset, peak, and end of influenza activity vary, and
cannot be predicted precisely from one season to the next.  In general,
however, annual epidemics of influenza typically occur in the United States
during the fall and winter.  Influenza activity often begins to increase in
the U.S. during October, and can extend as late as May.  Peak activity most
commonly occurs during the winter.  During the 36 seasons from 1982-83 through
2017-18, peak activity occurred most commonly during February (in 15 [42%]
seasons); however peak activity was observed during December (7 [19%]),
January (6 [17%]), and March (6 [17%]) during other seasons (10).

Surveillance systems and research studies use different case definitions to
characterize influenza activity and illness.  Some outcomes (e.g., influenza
illness confirmed by viral culture or polymerase chain reaction [PCR]­­­) are
more specific than others (e.g., influenza-like illness defined by a clinical
case definition, without confirmatory diagnostic testing).  Studies that
report rates of clinically-defined outcomes without laboratory confirmation of
influenza (e.g., respiratory illness requiring hospitalization during
influenza season) can be difficult to interpret because of coincident
circulation of other respiratory pathogens (e.g., respiratory syncytial virus)
(11). More specific burden estimates are provided by surveillance studies
based on laboratory-confirmed influenza (LCI). However, less specific outcomes
are useful in national surveillance of influenza activity, and are used in
some components of routine U.S. influenza surveillance.  Increases in health
care provider visits for acute febrile respiratory illness occur annually,
coinciding with periods of increased influenza activity, making influenza-like
illness (ILI) surveillance systems valuable in understanding and describing
the seasonal and geographic occurrence of influenza each year (12).

Persons of all ages are susceptible to influenza.  Influenza incidence is
difficult to quantify precisely, as many or most of those infected may not
seek medical attention and are therefore not diagnosed.  An estimated
incidence of approximately 8% (varying from 3% to 11%) was derived through
statistical extrapolation of U.S. hospitalization data and a meta-analysis of
published literature (13).  In a systematic review of randomized controlled
trials which examined LCI events in the control (unvaccinated or placebo) arms
of the included studies, an estimated 1 in 5 unvaccinated children and 1 in 10
unvaccinated adults were infected, with approximately half of these cases
being symptomatic (14).

Burden of severe outcomes associated with influenza illness, such as
hospitalization and death, may be estimated in several ways, such as through
assessing rates of these events during influenza seasons, though mathematical
modelling methods, and through studies that examine LCI.  In typical influenza
seasons, increases in deaths and hospitalizations are observed during periods
when influenza viruses are circulating. Although not all excess events
occurring during these periods are attributable to influenza, surveillance of
these events is useful for monitoring season-to-season trends in influenza-
associated outcomes. Estimates based on hospitalizations or deaths associated
with pneumonia and influenza (P&I) diagnoses likely underestimate the burden
of severe illnesses that are at least partly attributable to influenza,
because this category excludes deaths caused by exacerbations of underlying
cardiac and pulmonary conditions that are associated with influenza infection.
Thus, some authors have used the broader category of respiratory and
circulatory excess events for influenza burden estimates.  A modeling analysis
of population-based surveillance data for seasons following the 2009 pandemic
(2010-11 through 2012-13) estimated that influenza was associated with 114,018
--633,001 hospitalizations, 18,476-96,667 intensive care unit (ICU)
admissions, and 4,866-27,810 deaths per year (15).  An estimated 54%-70% of
hospitalizations and 71%-85% of deaths occurred among adults aged ≥65 years.
This model used a multiplier method to correct for under-detection in
hospitalizations attributable to cases for which influenza testing was not
performed and for suboptimal test sensitivity. Using similar methodology, for
seven seasons from 2010-11 through 2015-16 it has been estimated that between
9.2--35.6 million illnesses, 4.3--16.7 million outpatient medical visits,
139,000--708,000 hospitalizations were attributable to influenza each season
(16)  Excess deaths were estimated to be 4,000-20,000 per season for P&I
deaths and 12,000-56,000 for respiratory and circulatory deaths.

Top of Page

### Information on Specific Populations

Children

Influenza is an important cause of outpatient medical visits and
hospitalizations among young children. In a population-based retrospective
cohort study, hospitalization rates for children aged <5 years with acute
respiratory illness (ARI) or LCI-associated fever averaged 0.9 per 1000 (range
0.4-1.5) for seasons 2000-01 through 2003-04 and 0.58 per 1000 (range 0.36 to
0.97) for the seasons 2004-05 through 2008-09 (17, 18). In a retrospective
cohort study of children aged <15 years over 19 seasons (1974-75 through
1992-93), an estimated average of 6-15 additional outpatient visits and 3-9
additional antibiotic courses per 100 children per season were attributed to
influenza (19). In a study conducted in a single county in Tennessee during
the 2000-01 through 2010-11 seasons, estimated rates of influenza-related
hospitalizations among children aged 6 through 59 months varied from 1.9 to 16
per 10,000 children per year; estimated rates of influenza-related emergency
department visits ranged from 89 to 620 per 10,000 children per year (20).

Estimated rates of influenza-associated hospitalization generally are
substantially higher among infants and children <5 years than among older
children (17, 18, 21-26). During 1993-2008, estimated annual rates of
influenza-associated hospitalizations were 151.0 per 100,000 among children
aged <1 years and 38.8 per 100,000 among children aged 1-4 years, compared
with 16.8 per 100,000 among persons aged 5 through 49 years (23).  Estimated
hospitalization rates for children with high-risk medical conditions are
generally higher than for those without (26-28). In a study of children
hospitalized with confirmed influenza infection, length of stay was longer for
those with high-risk conditions than for healthy children of the same age (4.7
vs. 3.0 days for those aged 6 through 23 months; 5.8 vs. 3.6 days for those
aged 2 through 17 years) (21). Thirty-seven percent had an ACIP-defined high-
risk condition; the most common high-risk conditions were asthma (45%),
followed by neurological (23%), cardiovascular (21%), metabolic and
immunosuppressive disorders (7% each). In another study, asthma was associated
with 23% of the influenza hospitalizations and 15% of the outpatient visits
(27).

Estimates of influenza mortality rates for children based on pneumonia and
influenza diagnoses, respiratory and circulatory diagnoses, or laboratory
confirmed influenza have generally been low, <1 per 100,000 person-years (29,
30). However, the absolute number of pediatric deaths varies from season to
season (31). It is important to note that these deaths often occur in children
with no other risk factors for severe influenza illness. In one study of the
2003-04 season, nearly half occurred in previously healthy children (30). In
the United States, death associated with LCI among children aged <18 years has
been a nationally reportable condition since October 2004 (32). Since
reporting began, the annual number of reported influenza-associated pediatric
deaths during regular influenza seasons has ranged from 37 deaths in the
2011-12 season to a high of 187 in 2017-18 (31). A larger number of deaths
were reported during the 2009 influenza A(H1N1)pdm09 pandemic, for which 358
pediatric deaths were reported to CDC from April 15, 2009 through October 2,
2010 (33).  In a review of pediatric mortality surveillance data covering the
2010-11 through 2015-16 seasons, death rates were inversely associated with
age, with the highest rates occurring among those aged < 6 months.  Among
children aged ≥6 months, only 31% had received at least one dose of influenza
vaccine in the season that death occurred (34).

Younger Adults

In typical seasons, influenza-associated hospitalization occurs less
frequently among younger adults as compared with children aged <5 years and
adults aged ≥65 years. However, some authors have reported that influenza is
an important cause of outpatient medical visits and worker absenteeism among
healthy adults. In one economic modeling analysis, the average annual burden
of seasonal influenza among adults aged 18-49 years without medical conditions
that confer a higher risk for influenza complications was estimated to include
approximately 5.2 million illnesses, 2.4 million outpatient visits, 31,800
hospitalizations, and 684 deaths (35). Studies of worker vaccination have
reported lower rates of ILI (36, 37), lost work time (36-39), and health care
visits (37, 39) in association with vaccination as compared with no vaccine or
placebo.  Influenza may be associated with greater workplace productivity
losses among working adults than acute respiratory infections caused by other
pathogens (40).

During the 2009 influenza A(H1N1)pdm09 pandemic  adults aged <65 years
appeared to be at higher risk for influenza-related hospitalizations and
deaths (41) as compared with typical influenza seasons. During the 2009
influenza A (H1N1) pandemic period (April 2009 through May 1, 2010), the
cumulative crude rates of LCI-related hospitalization for the Emerging
Infections Program sites were 3.0 per 10,000 persons aged 18-49 years, 3.8 per
10,000 persons aged 50-64 years, and 3.2 per 10,000 persons aged ≥65 years.
During the previous three seasons, rates had ranged from 0.3-0.7 per 10,000
persons aged 18-49 years to 0.4-1.5 per 10.000 persons aged 50-64 years and
1.4-7.5 per 10,000 persons aged ≥65 years (42). Adults aged 50-64 years had
the highest mortality rate during the 2009 pandemic. This group was again
severely affected during the 2013-14 season when H1N1pdm09 was the predominant
virus, sustaining higher hospitalization rates than in previous seasons since
the pandemic (43).

Older Adults

Hospitalization rates during typical influenza seasons are generally highest
for adults aged ≥65 years (12).  Risk of hospitalization may be greater among
older adults with high-risk underlying medical conditions than for those
without such conditions. One retrospective analysis of data from three
managed-care organizations collected during 1996-97 through 1999-2000
estimated that the risk during influenza season among persons aged ≥65 years
with high-risk underlying medical conditions was 55.6 for pneumonia and
influenza-associated hospitalizations per 10,000 persons, compared with 18.7
per 10,000 among lower risk persons in this age group. Persons aged 50-64
years who had underlying medical conditions also were at substantially
increased risk for hospitalization during influenza season compared with
healthy adults aged 50-64 years (12.3 versus 1.8 per 10,000 person-periods)
(44).

Deaths associated with influenza are most frequent among older adults. From
the 2010-11 through 2015-16 seasons, an estimated 9,000-43,000 influenza-
related deaths occurred among adults aged ≥65 years, corresponding to >75% of
estimated annual average deaths across all age groups (16). In comparison, the
average annual mortality was estimated to be 200-1,300 deaths among persons
aged <18 years and 2,700-11,000 deaths among persons aged 18-64 years.

Some studies have examined potential associations between acute respiratory
illnesses and acute vascular events such as myocardial infarction and ischemic
stroke (45-48).  A self-controlled case series analysis of 364
hospitalizations for myocardial infarction found an increased risk for
myocardial infarction within 7 days of laboratory detection of influenza
(incidence ratio [IRR]=6.05, 95%CI 3.86--9.50 for all influenza; IRR=10.11,
95%CI 4.37--23.38 for influenza B, and IRR=5.17, 95%CI 3.02--8.84 for
influenza A) (45).  A self-controlled case series analysis of the United
Kingdom Myocardial Ischaemia National Audit Project and the General Practice
Research Database found that the risk of acute myocardial infarction was
significantly higher 1-3 days after the onset of an acute respiratory
infection (IRR=4.19, 95%CI 3.18--5.53). This effect was greatest among those
aged ≥80 years (46). In an analysis of hospitalization data, admissions for
myocardial infarction and stroke among persons aged ≥75 years were correlated
with circulation of influenza (47).  A retrospective analysis of medical
record data reported that persons hospitalized for an ischemic stroke had
increased odds of having had a recent previous hospitalization for ILI.  In
this study, the association between ILI and stroke was greatest for younger
adults (those under 43 years of age), and decreased with increasing age
(though it remained statistically significant) (48).

Pregnant Women and Pregnancy Outcomes

Pregnant women are vulnerable to severe symptoms and illness attributable to
influenza. Physiologic changes associated with pregnancy, such as altered
cardiopulmonary mechanics and changes in cell-mediated immunity, might
contribute to enhanced susceptibility (49).  A retrospective cohort study of
pregnant women conducted in Nova Scotia during 1990-2002 compared medical
record data for 134,188 pregnant women to data from the same women during the
year before pregnancy. The rate ratio for hospital admissions was
significantly increased during all trimesters of pregnancy, and increased with
successive stages (for the third trimester, relative risk [RR] 7.9 [95%CI
5.0-12.5] among women with comorbidities and 5.1 [95%CI 3.6-7.3] among those
without comorbidities) (50).  A cohort study conducted in New Zealand found
increased risk of LCI-associated hospitalizations among pregnant women
compared with women who were not pregnant.  Risk was increased for all
trimesters and increased with successive stages of pregnancy (RR=2.5, 95%CI
1.2--5.4 for first trimester; RR=3.9, 95%CI 2.4--6.3 for second trimester; and
RR=4.8, 95%CI 3.0--7.7 for third trimester) (51).  A systematic review and
meta-analysis of observational studies concluded that influenza infection
during pregnancy was associated with an increased risk for hospitalization
relative to infection in non-pregnant individuals (OR=2.44, 95%CI 1.22--4.87),
but not for death (52).

Increased severity of influenza among pregnant women was reported during the
pandemics of 1918-19, 1957-58, and 2009-10 (53-58). During the 2009(H1N1)
pandemic, severe infections among postpartum (delivered within previous 2
weeks) women also were observed (54, 57, 59). In a case series conducted
during the 2009(H1N1) pandemic, 56 (20%) deaths were reported among 280
pregnant women admitted to intensive care units. Among U.S. deaths due to
pandemic influenza reported to CDC, five percent of all US deaths from
pandemic influenza involved pregnant women, even though they represented <1%
of the population (60, 61). Among the deaths, 36 (64%) occurred in the third
trimester. Pregnant women who were treated with neuraminidase inhibitor
antivirals >4 days after symptom onset were more likely to be admitted to an
intensive care unit (57% versus 9%; relative risk [RR]=6.0, 95%CI 3.5-10.6)
than those treated within 2 days after symptom onset (61).

Some studies of pregnancy outcomes have suggested increased risk for pregnancy
complications attributable to maternal influenza illness; others have not. A
review of data from the National Inpatient Sample (a publicly available
hospital discharge database; _www.hcup_ external icon _ _-__
_us.ahrq.gov/nisoverview.jsp_ external icon)external icon covering the 1998-99
through the 2001-02 seasons and including over 6.2 million hospitalizations of
pregnant women, reported increased risk for fetal distress, preterm labor, and
cesarean delivery among those women with respiratory illness during influenza
seasons, compared with women without respiratory illness (62). A study of
117,347 pregnancies in Norway during the 2009-10 pandemic noted an increased
risk for fetal death among pregnant women with a clinical diagnosis of
influenza (adjusted hazard ratio [aHR]=1.91; 95%CI 1.07-3.41) (63). A cohort
study conducted among 221 hospitals in the United Kingdom observed an
increased risk for perinatal death, stillbirth, and preterm birth among women
admitted with confirmed 2009(H1N1) infection (64). In a retrospective cohort
study of 86,779 pregnancies in which 192 cases of LCI were identified during
the 2012-14 and 2013-14 seasons, women infected during the first trimester had
a significantly lower mean length of gestation than uninfected women (38 vs.
39 weeks).  The infants of those infected with influenza B had a 4% lower mean
percent of optimal weight (65). However, other studies of infants born to
women with LCI during pregnancy have not shown higher rates of prematurity,
preterm labor, low birth weight, or lower Apgar scores compared with infants
born to uninfected women (66-68).

Influenza symptoms often include fever, which during pregnancy might be
associated with neural tube defects and other adverse outcomes (69). A meta-
analysis of 22 observational studies of congenital anomalies following
influenza exposure during the first trimester of pregnancy noted associations
with several types of congenital anomalies, including neural tube defects,
hydrocephaly, heart and aortic valve defects, digestive system defects, cleft
lip, and limb reduction defects (70). However, many of the included studies
were conducted during the 1950s through 1970s, and a nonspecific definition of
influenza was used (any reported influenza, ILI, or fever with influenza, with
or without serological or clinical confirmation).  A 2005 meta-analysis of
fifteen observational studies noted an association between maternal fever and
neural tube defects (71). Associations between maternal fever and congenital
heart defects (72) and orofacial cleft (73) have been reported in some
studies; in one study of congenital anomalies such as orofacial clefts,
congenital heart defects, and omphalocele, the association with maternal fever
was ameliorated among those mothers who had taken multivitamins (74). **_ _**

Persons with Increased Risk for Severe Influenza Illness and Complications

Persons with "chronic debilitating diseases" (specifically those with
cardiovascular disease, pulmonary disease, diabetes and Addison's disease),
were included (along with persons aged ≥65 years and pregnant women) among
those recommended to receive vaccine as early as 1960.  These groups had been
noted to have contributed most to the excess deaths observed during the 1957
influenza pandemic (75).   Since that time, the list of conditions potentially
conferring increased risk of severe illness attributable to influenza has
expanded to include persons with chronic medical conditions of most body
systems, immunocompromised persons, those who are extremely obese, and
American Indian/Alaska Native populations (76).  In general, risk groups have
been added as a result of increased observed risk of hospitalization or other
severe outcomes during some influenza seasons.  For any given group, the
degree of increased risk may not be the same in all seasons.  However, the
potential for increased risk of severe illness cannot be predicted in any
given season.  Moreover, most risk categories comprise a heterogeneous group
of conditions, the severity of which varies among different individuals, as
well as with the presence or absence of medical treatment for the underlying
condition.  It is possible that these factors may alter illness risk for any
given individual.

In a study of 4,756 adults hospitalized with influenza from October 2005
through April 2008, characteristics significantly associated with pneumonia (a
potential severe complication of influenza) included underlying chronic lung
disease and immunosuppression (77).  Among patients with pneumonia, patients
with a poor outcome (defined as ICU admission, need for mechanical
ventilation, or death) were more likely to be affected by chronic lung
disease, cardiovascular disease, renal disease, or immunosuppression.  In a
case control study of children 6 through 59 months of age during the 2005-06
through 2008-09 seasons, hospitalization for influenza was significantly
associated with pulmonary, hematologic/oncologic, and neurologic conditions
(78).  In a systematic review of studies of risk factors for influenza-related
complications among children, hospitalization was most strongly associated
with neurologic disorders, prematurity, sickle-cell disease,
immunosuppression, and diabetes (79).

Some early studies suggested increased severity of influenza among HIV-
infected persons (80, 81).  Studies conducted since the widespread
availability of effective HIV antiretroviral therapy indicate that there may
be no increased risk of severe disease among persons for whom HIV is well-
controlled (82-87).  However, influenza may be associated with secondary
bacterial pneumonia, particularly _Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus
influenzae, and Staphylococcus aureus,_ which may be more severe among HIV-
infected persons (88).

Prior to the 2009 pandemic, obesity had not been recognized as a risk factor
for severe influenza illness. However, several studies during the 2009
pandemic noted a high prevalence of obesity among persons with severe illness
attributable to A(H1N1)pdm09 (89-91). In a case-cohort study, among persons
aged ≥20 years, hospitalization with illness attributable to laboratory-
confirmed influenza A(H1N1)pdm09 was associated with extreme obesity (body
mass index [BMI] ≥40) even in the absence of other risk factors for severe
illness (odds ratio [OR]=4.7; 95%CI 1.3-17.2) (92). Death was associated with
both obesity, defined as BMI ≥30 (OR=3.1; 95%CI 1.5-6.6) and extreme obesity
(OR=7.6; 95%CI 2.1-27.9). A Canadian cohort study covering 12 seasons (1996-97
through 2007-08) found that persons with a BMI of 30.0-34.9 and those with a
BMI ≥35 were more likely than normal-weight persons to have a respiratory
hospitalization during influenza seasons (OR=1.45; 95%CI 1.03-2.05 for BMI
30-34.9 and OR=2.12; 95%CI 1.45- 3.10 for BMI ≥35) (93). A retrospective
cohort study of Australian national health insurance data between 2006 and
2015 found that compared to adults with a healthy BMI, those with a BMI of 30
to <40 had a higher risk of influenza-associated hospital admission (aHR=1.57,
95%CI 1.22-2.01); those with a BMI of ≥40 had an even higher risk (aHR=4.81,
95%CI 3.23--7.17) (94).  Conversely, a two-season prospective cohort study
(2007-09) in the United States found no association between obesity and
medically attended LCI, including both seasonal and pandemic virus circulation
(95).  In a four-season (2010-11 through 2013-14) cohort study conducted in
Mexico of children and adults with viral ILI, influenza infection was
significantly associated with increased risk of hospitalization among adults
who were either underweight or morbidly obese.  Among children in this study,
influenza was not analyzed separately; obesity was associated with increased
risk for hospitalization for ILI due to any viral pathogen (96).

Also during the 2009 pandemic, racial and ethnic disparities in the risk for
influenza-related complications among adults were noted, including higher
rates of severe influenza illness among blacks and among American
Indians/Alaska Natives and indigenous populations in other countries (97-102).
These disparities might be attributable in part to the higher prevalence of
underlying medical conditions or disparities in medical care among these
racial/ethnic groups (101, 103). A more recent case-control study of risk
factors for death from 2009 pandemic influenza that adjusted for factors such
as pre-existing medical conditions, barriers to health care access, and
delayed receipt of antivirals found that American Indian/Alaska Native status
was not independently associated with death (104).

Top of Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   * NextImmunogenicity, E...

Page last reviewed: September 10, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD)

home Seasonal Influenza (Flu)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About Fluplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What You Need to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * When is Flu Season
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * How Flu Spreads
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Understanding Influenza Viruses plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Types of Influenza Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * How Flu Viruses Can Change
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Antigenic Characterization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Genetic Characterization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reconstruction of the 1918 Influenza Pandemic Virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Advanced Molecular Detection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Burden of Influenzaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Preliminary In-Season 2019-2020 Burden Estimates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * How CDC Estimates Burden
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Why CDC Estimates the Burden of Flu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Past Seasons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * How CDC Classifies Flu Severity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Glossary of Influenza (Flu) Terms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Questions & Answers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Who is at High Risk for Flu Complicationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adults 65 & Over
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Pregnant Womenplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Flu Vaccine Safety and Pregnant Women
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Asthma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Heart Disease & Stroke
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * HIV/AIDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What Parents Need to Knowplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Caregivers of Infants
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Young Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Children With Neurologic Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Children and Antiviral Drugs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mixing Oseltamivir Capsules for Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Flu Seasonplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What You Need to Know for 2019-20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Past Flu Seasonsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2018-2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2017-2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2016-2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2015-2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2014-2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2013-2014
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2012-2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2011-2012
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2010-2011
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2009-2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2007-2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2006-2007
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Prevent Fluplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * How to Prevent Fluplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Preventive Actions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Key Facts About Flu Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Who Needs a Flu Vaccine & Whenplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Who Should & Who Should NOT Get Vaccinated
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Vaccine Benefitsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Publications on Vaccine Benefits 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Different Flu Vaccinesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Flu Shot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Live Attenuated Influeza Vaccine (LAIV)/Nasal Spray Vaccine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Quadrivalent Influenza Vaccine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * High-Dose Flu Vaccine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adjuvanted Flu Vaccine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cell-Based Flu Vaccine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Recombinant Flu Vaccine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Intradermal Flu Vaccine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Flu Vaccination by Jet Injector
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * How Flu Vaccines are madeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Advancements in Influenza Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Selecting Viruses for the Seasonal Influenza Vaccine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Projects to Improve Flu Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Flu Vaccine Safetyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Vaccine Safety Questions & Answers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Febrile Seizures Following Vaccination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Flu Vaccine and People with Egg Allergies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guillain-BarrÃ© Syndrome (GBS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Thimerosal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Misconceptions about Flu Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Healthy Habits to Help Prevent Flu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Vaccine Supply & Distributionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Vaccine Supply for 2019-2020 Season
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Frequently Asked Questions on Vaccine Supply
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Historical Reference of Vaccine Doses Distributed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Flu Vaccines Workplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * How Well Flu Vaccines Work
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDCâs Vaccine Effectiveness Networksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * US Flu VE Network
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Hospitalized Adult Influenza Vaccine Effectiveness Network (HAIVEN)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * How Vaccine Effectiveness and Efficacy are Measured
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Why CDC Estimates Vaccine Effectiveness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Vaccine Effectiveness Studiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2019-2020 Vaccine Effectiveness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Past Seasons Vaccine Effectivenessplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * VE Tables for 2011-12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * VE Tables for 2012-13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * VE Tables for 2013-14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * VE Tables for 2014-15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * VE Tables for 2015-16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * VE Tables for 2016-17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * VE Tables for 2017-18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * VE Tables for 2018-19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Flu Burden Averted from Vaccinationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * How CDC Estimates Burden Averted
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Why CDC Estimates Burden Averted
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Past Seasons Burden Averted Estimates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Symptoms & Diagnosis plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Flu Symptoms & Complicationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What People with a Staph Infection Should Know about Flu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Difference Between Cold and Flu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What You Need to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What are Flu Antiviral Drugsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Antiviral Drug Resistance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Baloxavir Marboxil
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What to do if You Get Sick
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Caring for Someone Sick
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Schools, Businesses & Travelersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Schools & Childcare Providersplus icon __
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance for School Administrators
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cleaning & Disinfecting Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * School-Located Vaccination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Business & Employersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Prevent Flu in the Workplace
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Promoting Vaccination in the Workplace
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources for Hosting a Vaccination Clinic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Stay Home When Sick
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Flu Activity & Surveillanceplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDCâs WHO Collaborating Center
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Overview of Influenza Surveillance in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Current United States Flu Activity Map
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Weekly U.S. Influenza Surveillance Report (FluView)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FluView Interactive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Past Weekly Surveillance Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FluSight: Flu Forecastingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDCâs Flu Forecasting Efforts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * How CDC Uses Flu Forecasting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Why CDC Supports Flu Forecasting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Past Flu Seasons Flu Forecasting Accuracy Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Professionalsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Care Workers Need A Flu Vaccine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * ACIP Recommendationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2019-20 ACIP Background
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Background and Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2019-20 ACIP Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Vaccinationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Flu Vaccination & Miscarriage 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Table of Approved Vaccines for 2019-2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Vaccine Dosage & Administration
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * For Clinicians: Vaccination Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * For Clinicians: Vaccine Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Large-Scale Influenza Vaccination Clinic Planning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reallocating Influenza Vaccine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Vaccination Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Make a Strong Flu Vaccine Recommendation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tools to Prepare Your Practice for Flu Season
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Sample Social Media Posts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Information for Clinicians on Influenza Virus Testingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview of Influenza Testing Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Information on Collection of Respiratory Specimens for Influenza Virus Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Clinical Signs & Symptoms of Influenza
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Symptoms & Laboratory Diagnosis 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Information for Clinicians on Rapid Diagnostic Testing for Influenza
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Rapid Influenza Diagnostic Tests (RIDTs)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance: Use of Rapid Diagnostic Test 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Information on Rapid Molecular Assays, RT-PCR, and other Molecular Assays for Diagnosis of Influenza Virus Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nucleic Acid Detection Based Tests
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Medical Office Telephone Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Parotitis and Influenza 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQ Parotitis and Influenza 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Algorithm: Interpreting Influenza Testing Results When Influenza is Circulating
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Algorithm: Interpreting Influenza Testing Results When Influenza is NOT Circulating
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guide: Considering Influenza Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guide: Influenza Diagnostic Testing in Closed Setting Outbreaks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Information for Laboratoriesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Rapid Diagnostic Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance: Standard-Based Electronic Laboratory Reporting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Influenza Virus Testing Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Antiviral Drugsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * For Clinicians: Antiviral Medication 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Types of Antiviral Drugs 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Antiviral Guidance Reference Material 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance: Antiviral and Obstetric Health Care 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Antiviral Drug Supply
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infection Controlplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidelines for Healthcare Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Respiratory Infection Control Measures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance: Outbreak Management in Long-Term Care Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance: Use of Mask to Control Influenza Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance: Prevention & Control in Peri- and Postpartum Settings 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Toolkit for Long-Term Care Employers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Trainings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Professional References & Resources 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Flu News & Spotlightsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 2018-2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 2017-2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 2016-2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 2015-2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 2014-2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 2013-2014
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 2012-2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 2011-2012
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 2010-2011
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 2009-2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Whatâs New

What CDC Does

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FluVaxView
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Communications Resource Center
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * International Work
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Outbreak Investigations

email_03Get Email Updates

To receive weekly email updates about Seasonal Flu, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

![H1N1 Flu Pandemic 2009-2019: A Decade Later](/flu/images/H1N1-web-
badge-02.png)

Influenza Types

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Seasonal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pandemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Avian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Swine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Influenza in Animals

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM

