https://www.cdc.gov/about/organization/strategic-framework/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/about/organization/strategic-framework/index.html    
                Description: CDC works 24/7 to protect the health, safety, and security of Americans. CDC fights disease whether it starts at home or abroad, is infectious or not, occurs naturally, by accident, or from a deliberate attack.     
                Keywords: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,  CDC,  Strategic framework,  strategic priorities, health security, strengthen public health, History of CDC    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

About CDC 24-7

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# CDC Strategic Framework

Using Science and Innovation to Prevent, Detect, and Respond

Minus

Related Pages

## A Bold Promise to the Nation

![Image of hands holding a pretri dish with a
culture](/about/organization/strategic-framework/images/strategy4.jpg)

With this strategic framework, CDC commits to save American lives by securing
global health, ensuring domestic preparedness, eliminating disease, and ending
epidemics. CDC's strategy to save American lives cascades from an ambitious
aspiration to granular action plans and detailed measures of success. CDC's
foundational scientific work remains vital to the overall mission of this
agency. This strategy was built with the input of about one hundred of CDC's
best experts, and reflects both the Director's decades of research in virology
and epidemiology, along with CDC's deep knowledge and more than 70 years of
experience responding to and preventing disease outbreaks. CDC is a large
agency with a broad mandate and specific congressional directives; this
strategy highlights and reinforces major efforts and goals and is not
inclusive of all our important work.

## CDC's Strategy is Based on Action Plans and Detailed Measures of Success

#### Examples Include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Opioids** - Reduce US drug overdose mortality by at least 15% by 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Opioid Data** - Reduce data delay from 3 months to 1 week for nonfatal opioid overdoses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Influenza** - By 2021, increase flu vaccination coverage rates among children to 65% and among pregnant women to 55%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **HIV/AIDS** - Eliminate new HIV infections in 10 years
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Vaccine-preventable** - Increase by 10% up-to-date HPV vaccination coverage rate in 2021 compared to 2017 (48.6%)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Rapid Response** - By 2022, triple the number of CDC rapid response teams and trained incident managers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Vector-borne** - Reduce by 75% cases of Rocky Mountain spotted fever in US tribal communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Hepatitis C** - Reduce hepatitis C-related deaths by 65% in 10 targeted states by 2024, as a first step to a national program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Antibiotics** - Reduce by 50% inappropriate antibiotic use in outpatient settings by 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Global** - Zero countries with wild poliovirus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Diabetes** - Reduce the number of new diabetes diagnoses from 1.4M in 2018 to 1.1M cases per year by 2025
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **AMD** - Increase the routine use of Advanced Molecular Detection from 37 states (2017) to all states (2019)

## Our Priorities will Save American Lives, Continuing a Proud History of
Putting Science into Action

Our priorities reaffirm our leadership and commitment to confront and respond
to health threats wherever they occur. CDC's scientific experts around the
world work to bring an end to the devastation of epidemics, finally
eliminating certain diseases, and providing a new level of domestic health
preparedness and global health security against current and emerging threats.

![Scientist wearing personal protective
equipment](/about/organization/strategic-framework/images/strategy1.jpg)

**Securing Global Health and America 's Preparedness** by stopping the spread
of contagions, revitalizing our public health infrastructure and addressing
bioterrorism threats, and vector-borne diseases.

**Global and Domestic Preparedness: Pandemic Contagions** - CDC is the
nation's leader in public health preparedness and response to disease
pandemics. CDC fights contagions at home and abroad, continuing to enhance our
ability to rapidly detect new viruses and improve federal, state, and local
pandemic readiness.

**Domestic Preparedness: Biological, Chemical, Radiation/Nuclear Terrorism** -
These threats have the potential to kill or injure hundreds of thousands of
Americans, cause economic chaos, and create a loss of confidence in the US
Government's ability to protect America.

**Domestic Preparedness: Vector-borne Diseases** - Vector-borne diseases
(VBDs) like dengue, malaria, and Lyme disease account for 17% of the global
burden of all infectious diseases. The number of reported domestic cases of
VBD tripled from 2004-2016, with more than 640,000 reported cases and nine new
pathogens discovered in the U.S. during that time period.

![Image of Virus](/about/organization/strategic-
framework/images/iStock_000011220460_XXXLarge-medium_cropped.jpg)

**Eliminating Disease** such as ending HIV/AIDS, controlling vaccine-
preventable disease, and targeting Hepatitis C, a costly and debilitating
condition.

**HIV/AIDS - **Elimination of new HIV infections in America is possible.
Medical and scientific advances provide an opportunity to "bend the curve" and
shift the U.S. epidemic to one where the number of people acquiring HIV
steadily decreases, leading to elimination.

**Vaccine-Preventable Diseases - **CDC's leadership in national vaccine policy
and programs results in prevented deaths and diseases, and significant savings
in direct and indirect costs.

**Hepatitis C Infection and Disease - **Hepatitis C is a common, costly, but
now curable, costly disease. Testing and treatment strategies could save about
$3.3 billion in health care costs and reduce transplants, disabilities, and
deaths.

![Doctor vaccinating a pregnant woman](/about/organization/strategic-
framework/images/iStock-904849502-medium_cropped.jpg)

**Ending Epidemics** such as decreasing opioid overdoses, improving strategies
and interventions to stem seasonal influenza, developing and deploying new
answers for antibiotic resistance, and reducing new incidents of diabetes.

**Opioids - **In 2017, over 70,000 Americans died from a drug overdose. An
overwhelming majority of these overdose deaths involved an opioid.

**Influenza - **Seasonal influenza killed 80,000 Americans in 2017. Emerging
and novel influenza viruses pose the biggest threat to the world's health, as
the most likely next global pandemic. CDC is the nation's leader in seasonal
influenza prevention and control.

**Antibiotic Resistance - **Antibiotic resistance threatens modern medicine.
Infections resistant to antibiotics affect over 2 million Americans every
year, and kill 23,000 Americans; an additional 15,000 die from its
consequences (e.g., infection with C. difficile). The global burden is
unknown; O'Neil report estimates exceed 700,000 deaths per year.

**Diabetes and Prediabetes - **More than one third of the U.S. population has
diabetes or prediabetes. Prevalence tripled in the last two decades. Diabetes
can lead to devastating consequences and costs our nation $327 billion
annually; $237 billion direct medical costs and $90 billion lost
productivity/disability.

## CDC's Five Core Capabilities Will Accelerate and Enable these Priorities

Protecting America's health requires continuous improvement for our most vital
assets, which are fundamental to meet our agency's priorities:

_**Develop and deploy world-class data and analytics,**_ which are critical
assets to meeting today's and tomorrow's health challenges. Data is the
foundation of CDC's work. As a strategic asset, the data CDC generates and
uses needs to be timely, accurate, and useable.

_**As the reference lab to the world, we must maintain state-of-the-art
laboratory capacity.**_ CDC is a world leader in laboratory science, which is
fundamental to CDC's work. Conducted to the highest standards of safety and
quality, this science informs public health action.

_**Elite public health expertise**_ ensures we have the capacity to address
complex diseases and swiftly respond to new threats. To accomplish our
mission, CDC needs to maintain an elite, highly trained, cutting edge,
deployable and flexible scientific and programmatic workforce.

_**Quickly respond to outbreaks at their source, both domestic and abroad.**_
CDC's foremost responsibility is to respond to outbreaks, which are becoming
ever more complex and frequent, to protect Americans' health, save lives, and
protect livelihoods. The world counts on CDC to implement appropriate and
immediate early interventions, which could prevent an aggressive outbreak from
becoming an epidemic, and prevent an epidemic in a country or region from
developing into a worldwide pandemic.

_**Build on the current foundation for strong global health capacity and
domestic preparedness.**_ State and local expertise and a strategic global
footprint refocused to the highest-risk regions will help ensure an adaptable,
resilient, better coordinated system, and better prepared countries that can
address disease threats at their source.

Our strategic priorities are also enabled by unique expertise and
interdependent capabilities, including strategic communications, operational
excellence, partnerships, and stakeholder engagement.

## Using Science and Innovation to Prevent, Detect, and Respond

![Using Science and Innovation to Prevent, Detect, and
Respond](/about/organization/strategic-framework/images/Science-and-
innovation.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![](/about/organization/strategic-framework/images/Science-and-
innovation.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

View Text Description

## Vision for the Future

For more than 70 years, CDC scientists and disease detectives have worked
around the world to track diseases, research and end outbreaks, respond to
emergencies of all kinds, and use what they learn from this work to strengthen
America′s health and resilience.

Investing and acting globally enables CDC to be better prepared to combat any
threat to the health and safety of American citizens, no matter where in the
world it might first arise. With this vision for the future, CDC will be well
positioned to continue our proud history of putting science into action by
ending epidemics, eliminating disease, ensuring domestic preparedness, and
securing global health.

Page last reviewed: July 8, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home About CDC 24-7

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Leadershipplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Director
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Principal Deputy Director
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC Staff Officesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Office of the Associate Director for Communication (OADC) 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Office of the Associate Director for Policy and Strategy (OADPS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Chief Medical Officer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Office of the Chief of Staff (OCS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Office of the Chief Operating Officer (OCOO)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC Washington Office
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Office of Equal Employment Opportunity (OEEO)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Public Health Service and Implementation Science (PHSIS)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Office of Minority Health and Health Equity (OMHHE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Center for Global Health (CGH)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Center for Preparedness and Response (CPR) 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Center for State, Tribal, Local, and Territorial Support (CSTLTS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Public Health Science and Surveillance (PHSS)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Office of Science (OS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Office of Laboratory Science and Safety (OLSS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Laboratory Services (CSELS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Non-Infectious Diseases (NID)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (NCBDDD)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion (NCCDPHP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * National Center for Environmental Health/Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry* (NCEH/ATSDR)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * National Center for Injury Prevention and Control (NCIPC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infectious Diseases (ID)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention (NCHHSTP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Past Directors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Speakers Bureauplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Request a Speaker
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC Director: Speaker Request
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Community & School Eventsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Community Relations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC Organizationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Mission, Role and Pledgeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pledge to the American People
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Organization Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Official Mission Statements & Organizational Charts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * A Bold Promise to the Nationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC Strategic Frameworkplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2019 Progress Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Securing Global Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Eliminating Disease 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Ending Epidemics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 2019 CDC Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Watch CDC @Work
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * I Am CDC â Meet the Staff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Fact of the Weekplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact of the Week Archives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Business Practicesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC Foundation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Laboratory Science & Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Diversity and Inclusion Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * More About CDCplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika Response & Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 2014 Ebola Outbreak Responseplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ebola Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC Archivesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Advisory Committees

Features Media

Social_round_rss RSS Sign up for Features

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC Newsroom
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC Timeline
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Gateway to Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Ethics Program

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

Artboard 124 download_01  image

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM

