https://www.cdc.gov/about/facts/archives.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/about/facts/archives.html    
                Description: CDC works 24/7 saving lives, protecting people from health threats, and saving money to have a more secure nation. A US federal agency, CDC helps make the healthy choice the easy choice by putting science and prevention into action. CDC works to help people live longer, healthier and more productive lives.    
                Keywords: CDC,  saving lives,  protecting people,  health threats,  secure nation,  US federal agency,  healthy choice,  science,  prevention,  CDCâs work,  what CDC does,  outbreaks,  health protection,  safeguarding America, 24/7,  security,  health security,  safety threats,  protect America,  foreign threats,  domestic threats,  Health Protection, Outbreaks, Food Safety    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

About CDC 24-7

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# CDC 24-7 Fact of the Week Archives

Minus

Related Pages

### Fact of the Week - Archives

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * 2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * 2014
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * 2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * 2012

![Fact of the Week: Winterstorm](/about/images/facts/2019/fow-
winterstorm-72x72px.jpg)

##### Week of December 2, 2019

Are you prepared for a winter storm? Winter storms can bring cold
temperatures, power failures, loss of communication services, and icy roads.
To keep yourself and your loved ones safe, you should know how to prepare your
home and your car before a winter storm hits.

More

![Holiday Turkey](/about/images/facts/2019/fow-turkey-72x72.jpg)

##### Week of November 25, 2019

Never thaw your turkey by leaving it out on the counter. A thawing turkey must
defrost at a safe temperature. When the turkey is left out at room temperature
for more than 2 hours, its temperature becomes unsafe. Bacteria can grow
rapidly in the "danger zone" between 40°F and 140°F. Visit our food safety
page for more Thanksgiving safety tips.

More

![Fact of the week antibiotic resistance](/about/images/facts/2019/fow-
antibiotic-resistance_74x74.png)

##### Week of November 11, 2019

USAAW is an annual observance that raises awareness of the threat of
antibiotic resistance and the importance of appropriate antibiotic use. Use
our partner toolkit to help raise awareness of the importance of appropriate
antibiotic use.

More

![Woman blowing her nose.](/about/images/facts/2019/fow-diabetes-
flu-72x72px.jpg)

##### Week of November 4, 2019

Like everyone, people with diabetes get the flu and get sick sometimes, even
when you try your best to prevent it. Being prepared and knowing what to do
when you get sick is important. There are several things you can do now to
prepare for sick days. Visit our page to learn more.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Don't let an eye infection be the scariest part of your
Halloween](/about/images/facts/2019/fow-contact-lenses-72x72px.jpg)

##### Week of October 28, 2019

Don't let an eye infection be the scariest part of your Halloween. Using
decorative lenses without a valid prescription can cause serious harm to your
eyes--haunting you long after October 31st. Learn more about contact lense
safety at our page

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![A pregnant woman speaking to a nurse about her
pregnancy](/about/images/facts/2019/fow-pregnant-flu-shot-Copy.jpg)

##### Week of October 21, 2019

Are you pregnant? Getting a flu shot this month is a very important item to
check off your list. Ask your healthcare professional about getting a flu shot
to protect you and your baby.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![family inside house watching television](/about/images/facts/2019/hurricane-
inside-72px.jpg)

##### Week of September 30, 2019

If you need to stay home during a hurricane, stay inside. Even if it looks
calm, don't go outside. Wait until you hear or see an official message that
the hurricane is over. Sometimes, weather gets calm in the middle of a storm
but then gets worse again quickly.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![two people sneezing into hankerchief](/about/images/facts/2019/prevent-
flu-72px.jpg)

##### Week of September 23, 2019

CDC recommends a yearly flu vaccine as the first and most important step in
protecting against influenza and its potentially serious complications. Learn
more at our flu prevention web page.

More

![Flu season begins in late September. Use our Ready Wrigley preparedness
books for kids to help children understand how to prepare for flu season and
the importance of getting a flu shot. ](/about/images/facts/2019/0916-flu.jpg)

##### Week of September 16, 2019

Flu season begins in late September. Use our Ready Wrigley preparedness books
for kids to help children understand how to prepare for flu season and the
importance of getting a flu shot.

More

![Parents with
children](/about/modules/facts/2019/coping_helpingChildren-72px.jpg)

##### Week of September 9, 2019

During and after a disaster, it is natural to experience different and strong
emotions. Coping with these feelings and getting help when you need it will
help you, your family, and your community recover from a disaster. Connect
with family, friends, and others in your community. Take care of yourself and
each other, and know when and how to seek help.

More

![hurricane](/about/images/facts/2019/hurricane-72px.jpg)

##### Week of September 2, 2019

Hurricanes don't only affect people living along the coast. They can still
cause damage even if you live hundreds of miles from the shore. If you're in
an area where hurricanes are a risk, you need a plan.

More

![Doctor talking to a patient.](/about/images/facts/2019/how-i-
recommend-72px.jpg)

##### Week of August 26, 2019

The **#HowIRecommend** video series features short, informative videos from
clinicians like you. These videos explain the importance of vaccination, how
to effectively address questions from parents about vaccine safety and
effectiveness, and how clinicians routinely recommend same day vaccination to
their patients.

More

![close up of woman puting contact lens in
eye](/about/images/facts/2019/contacts-72px.jpg)

##### Week of August 19, 2019

Enjoy the comfort and benefits of contact lenses while lowering your chance of
complications. Failure to wear, clean, and store your lenses as directed by
your eye doctor raises the risk of developing serious infections.

More

![pregnant woman speaking with health care
professional](/about/images/facts/2019/0812-maternal-vaccines-72px.jpg)

##### Week of August 12, 2019

Vaccines help protect you and your baby against serious diseases. You probably
know that when you are pregnant, you share everything with your baby. That
means when you get vaccines, you aren't just protecting yourself--you are
giving your baby some early protection too. CDC recommends you get a whooping
cough and flu vaccine during each pregnancy to help protect yourself and your
baby.

More

![woman holding a baby](/about/images/facts/2019/0805-breastfeeding_72px.jpg)

##### Week of August 5, 2019

Breastfeeding is an Investment in Health. Breastfeeding can help lower a
mother's risk of high blood pressure, type 2 diabetes, ovarian cancer, and
breast cancer.

More

![blue human torso with red
liver](/about/images/facts/2019/hepatitis-72px.jpg)

##### Week of July 29, 2019

Hepatitis means inflammation of the liver, and is often caused by a virus. The
most common types of viral hepatitis are hepatitis A, hepatitis B, and
hepatitis C. Learn more about the ABCs of hepatitis.

More

![Lightning storm](/about/images/facts/2019/0718-lightning_74px.jpg)

##### Week of July 22, 2019

Although the odds of being struck by lightning in a given year are less than 1
in 1,000,000, some factors can put you at greater risk. Learn more about
lightning safety.

More

![kids running and smiling](/about/images/facts/2019/kids-sports-72px.jpg)

##### Week of July 15, 2019

To help ensure the health and safety of young athletes, CDC developed the
HEADS UP Concussion in Youth Sports initiative to offer information about
concussions to coaches, parents, and athletes involved in youth sports. The
HEADS UP initiative provides important information on preventing, recognizing,
and responding to a concussion.

More

![Two workers are walking near construction
site](/about/images/facts/2019/heatapp_74x74.png)

##### Week of July 8, 2019

Working outside on a hot day? Use the NIOSH Heat Safety App to plan outdoor
work activities based on how hot it feels throughout the day. Featuring real-
time heat index and hourly forecasts, specific to your location, as well as
occupational safety and health recommendations from OSHA and NIOSH.

More

![The sun's ultraviolet \(UV\) rays can damage your skin in as little as 15
minutes. You can reduce your risk of skin damage and skin cancer by seeking
shade under an umbrella, tree, or other shelter before you need relief from
the sun. Your best bet to protect your skin is to use sunscreen or wear
protective clothing when you're outside—even when you're in the shade. Learn
more about sun safety.](/about/images/facts/2019/0701-sunsafe.jpg)

##### Week of July 1, 2019

The sun's ultraviolet (UV) rays can damage your skin in as little as 15
minutes. You can reduce your risk of skin damage and skin cancer by seeking
shade under an umbrella, tree, or other shelter before you need relief from
the sun. Your best bet to protect your skin is to use sunscreen or wear
protective clothing when you're outside--even when you're in the shade. Learn
more about sun safety.

More

![toy plane on top of passport on world map](/about/images/facts/2019/mmr-
vaccine-fow-72px.jpg)

##### Week of June 24, 2019

Infants 6-11 months old should get one dose of the MMR vaccine before
international travel. All children 12 months and older should get two doses of
MMR vaccine, at least 28 days apart.

external iconMore

![Ebola virus was first discovered in 1976 near the Ebola River in what is now
the Democratic Republic of Congo. Since then, the virus has been infecting
people from time to time, leading to outbreaks in several African countries.
Learn more about Ebola virus here](/about/images/facts/2019/ebolaupdate.png)

##### Week of June 17, 2019

Ebola virus was first discovered in 1976 near the Ebola River in what is now
the Democratic Republic of Congo. Since then, the virus has been infecting
people from time to time, leading to outbreaks in several African countries.
Learn more about Ebola virus here.

More

![lgbt students](/about/images/facts/2019/lgbt-student-health-72px.jpg)

##### Week of June 10, 2019

CDC is committed to protecting and improving the health and quality of life of
all youth. Sexual minority youth or lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender
(LGBT) youth are a part of every community, every race, ethnicity, and
socioeconomic class, and live in all parts of the United States. Learn more
about health risks of LGBT students here.

More

![Stroke kills about 140,000 Americans each year—that's 1 out of every 20
deaths. Most strokes are preventable. Learn more about stroke, the signs and
symptoms, and how to prevent stroke here.](/about/images/facts/2019/head-
xray.png)

##### Week of June 3, 2019

Stroke kills about 140,000 Americans each year--that's 1 out of every 20
deaths. Most strokes are preventable. Learn more about stroke, the signs and
symptoms, and how to prevent stroke here.

More

![Grilling Safety](/about/images/facts/2019/grill-safety-74px.jpg)

##### Week of May 27, 2019

Food poisoning peaks in the summer months when warmer temperatures cause
foodborne germs to flourish. Follow these steps for a safe and enjoyable
grilling season.

More

![Swimming and other water-related activities are excellent ways to get the
physical activity and health benefits needed for a healthy life. However, they
are not risk-free. Learn more at CDC's Healthy Swimming
website.](/about/images/facts/2019/safe-swimming-74x74px.jpg)

##### Week of May 20, 2019

Swimming and other water-related activities are excellent ways to get the
physical activity and health benefits needed for a healthy life. However, they
are not risk-free. Learn more at CDC's Healthy Swimming website.

More

![a family with dog sitting in front of a
lake](/about/images/facts/2019/0513_pets_74px.jpg)

##### Week of May 13, 2019

Studies have shown that the bond between people and their pets can increase
fitness, lower stress, and bring happiness to their owners. Learn more about
the health benefits of pet ownership at our "Healthy Pets, Healthy People"
feature.

More

![woman smiling and talking to friends](/about/images/facts/2019/mental-
health-fow-72px.jpg)

##### Week of May 6, 2019

More than 50% of Americans will be diagnosed with a mental illness or disorder
at some point in their lifetime. See our page for more information and
resources about mental health.

More

![man looking at computer](/about/images/facts/2019/hepatitis-awareness-
fow-72px.jpg)

##### Week of April 26, 2019

In the United States, the most common types of viral hepatitis are hepatitis
A, hepatitis B, and hepatitis C. While each can produce similar symptoms, each
hepatitis virus has different routes of transmission and has different
populations that are commonly affected. Are you at risk? Take our 5 minute
risk assessment tool and get a personalized report here.

More

![Vaccination is a highly effective, easy way to keep your family healthy.
Print our easy vaccine guide and bring it to your next appointment, along with
any questions you'd like to
discuss.](/about/images/facts/2019/0422-vaccinate-74px.jpg)

##### Week of April 22, 2019

Vaccination is a highly effective, easy way to keep your family healthy. Print
our easy vaccine guide and bring it to your next appointment, along with any
questions you'd like to discuss.

More

![April 18th is National Transgender HIV/AIDS Awareness Day. Click here to
learn more about the specific HIV/AIDS prevention challenges for transgender
people and what CDC is doing to
help.](/about/images/facts/2019/0415_hiv_74px.jpg)

##### Week of April 15, 2019

April 18th is National Transgender HIV/AIDS Awareness Day. Click here to learn
more about the specific HIV/AIDS prevention challenges for transgender people
and what CDC is doing to help.

More

![road blocked by flooding](/about/images/facts/2019/0408-floods-72px.jpg)

##### Week of April 8, 2019

Floods, big or small, can have devastating effects on your home and your
family. Take steps to reduce the harm caused by flooding.

More

![baby in stroller smiling at mom](/about/images/facts/2019/0401-actearly-
fow_74px.jpg)

##### Week of April 1, 2019

By the age of 2 months, a baby should begin to smile at people. Learn more
about important developmental milestones for children at our _Learn the Signs.
Act Early._ website.

More

![man coughing](/about/images/facts/2019/tb-74x74.jpg)

##### Week of March 25, 2019

Symptoms of tuberculosis (TB) can include a bad cough that lasts three weeks
or longer, or pain in the chest. Learn more about TB here.

More

![father feeding his son](/about/images/facts/2019/good-nutrition-early.jpg)

##### Week of March 18, 2019

Good nutrition starts early! By the time your child is 7 or 8 months old, he
or she can eat a variety of foods from different food groups.

More

![Girl at airport on cell phone](/about/images/facts/2019/0311-blood-clots-
travel.jpg)

##### Week of March 11, 2019

Blood clots, also called deep vein thrombosis (DVT), can be a serious risk for
some long-distance travelers. The longer you are immobile, the greater your
risk of developing a blood clot.

More

![Pregnant woman with her hands on her
belly](/about/images/facts/2019/0304-cmv_74px.jpg)

##### Week of March 4, 2019

Congenital cytomegalovirus (CMV) is one of many causes of birth defects that
CDC is working to better understand. CMV can cause long-term problems, such as
hearing loss, developmental and motor delays, vision loss, an abnormally small
head, and seizures. Find out more about CMV.

More

![In 2018, more than 1 in 4 high school students and about 1 in 14 middle
school students used tobacco product in the past 30 days. Read our latest
Vital Signs, ](/about/modules/facts/2019/fact-week-tobacco-use-thumbnail.jpg)

##### Week of February 25, 2019

In 2018, more than **1 in 4** high school students and about **1 in 14**
middle school students used tobacco product in the past 30 days. Read our
latest Vital Signs, "Tobacco Use By Youth is Rising."

More

![1 in 4 new prescriptions for blood pressure medications are never filled.
Health care professionals can help patients take blood pressure medicines as
directed with our Blood Pressure Communications Kit.
](/about/images/facts/2019/0211-blood-pressure.jpg)

##### Week of February 11, 2019

1 in 4 new prescriptions for blood pressure medications are never filled.
Health care professionals can help patients take blood pressure medicines as
directed with our Blood Pressure Communications Kit.

More

![girl on bench listening to music](/about/images/facts/2019/0201-smoking-
fow.jpg)

##### Week of February 4, 2019

Quitting smoking improves your health and reduces your risk of heart disease,
cancer, lung disease, and other smoking-related illnesses. Download CDC's free
QuitGuide mobile app to start your quit plan now.

More

![About 3 million Americans have glaucoma. Half of people with glaucoma don't
know they have it. Learn more glaucoma facts here, and know your
risks.](/about/images/facts/2019/0129-glaucoma-fow.jpg)

##### Week of January 28, 2019

About 3 million Americans have glaucoma. Half of people with glaucoma don't
know they have it. Learn more glaucoma facts here, and know your risks.

More

![If stranded while driving in winter weather, tie a brightly colored cloth to
the car antenna as a signal to rescuers. In adults, drowsiness is a sign of
hypothermia. Learn more facts about winter safety on our Winter Weather
Frequently Asked Questions page. ](/about/images/facts/2019/0122-winter.jpg)

##### Week of January 22, 2019

If stranded while driving in winter weather, you should tie a brightly colored
cloth to the car antenna as a signal to rescuers. In adults, drowsiness is a
sign of hypothermia. Learn more facts about winter safety on our Winter
Weather Frequently Asked Questions page.

More

![woman working with petridish sample](/about/images/facts/2019/antimicrobial-
resistance72px.jpg)

##### Week of January 11, 2019

CDC is a leader in the fight against antibiotic resistance. Antibiotic
resistance has the potential to impact all Americans at every stage of life.
Find out what we are doing to help combat and slow this global threat.

More

![CDC urges all women of reproductive age to take 400 micrograms \(mcg\) of
folic acid each day. Visit our page for free resources and learn more about
the importance of folic acid.](/about/images/facts/2019/0107-folic-acid.jpg)

##### Week of January 7, 2019

CDC urges all women of reproductive age to take 400 micrograms (mcg) of folic
acid each day. Visit our page for free resources and learn more about the
importance of folic acid.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![snow man cartoon](/about/images/facts/2017/1225-sing-along-flu.jpg)

##### Week of December 25, 2017

This song (sung to the tune of Deck the Halls) describes actions you can take
to protect yourself and others from the flu. Sing along! And learn more about
flu.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Man with hand against forehead](/about/images/facts/2017/1217-coping-with-
stress.jpg)

##### Week of December 18, 2017

This time of year can be stressful. Find out how to manage stress by following
CDC's tips for self-care.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![A family posing beside a
snowman](/about/images/facts/2017/121117-Healthytips.jpg)

##### Week of December 11, 2017

Brighten the holidays by making your health and safety a priority. Take steps
to keep you and your loved ones safe and healthy--and ready to enjoy the
holidays.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Strategic National Stockpile](/about/images/facts/2017/120417-strategic-
national-stockpile.jpg)

##### Week of December 4, 2017

When the Department of Health and Human Services calls the Strategic National
Stockpile answers. Learn how Federal Medical Stations help people during a
public health emergency.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Pregnant woman holding broken
cigarette](/about/images/facts/2017/11.27.17_Pregnantdontsmoke.jpg)

##### Week of November 27, 2017

Smoking during pregnancy can cause babies to be born too small or too early
(preterm birth), certain birth defects, and stillbirth. Quitting smoking can
be hard, but it is one of the best ways a woman can protect herself and her
developing baby.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Snowy highway](/about/images/facts/2017/102017-holidayroadsafety.jpg)

##### Week of November 20, 2017

In the United States, motor vehicle crashes are a leading cause of death for
people aged 1‒54\. Learn to keep yourself and others safe on the road over the
holidays.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![a teen girl using her
inhaler](/about/images/facts/2017/111317-pneumonia.jpg)

##### Week of November 13, 2017

Each year in the United States, about 50,000 people die from pneumonia. Learn
how to lower your risk.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![a pill bottle](/about/images/facts/2017/110617-opioids.jpg)

##### Week of November 6, 2017

More than 183,000 people have died in the United States from overdoses related
to prescription opioids from 1999-2015.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Girl child drinking from water
fountain](/about/images/facts/2017/10.30.17_Environmental-Exposures.jpg)

##### Week of October 30, 2017

Children are more vulnerable to environmental exposures from before they are
born through early childhood. Learn how to protect your child from exposure to
health hazards in the environment.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![infographic regarding preparations for
wildfires](/about/images/facts/2017/102317-wildfires.jpg)

##### Week of October 23, 2017

More and more people make their homes in areas that are prone to wildfires.
You can take steps to be ready for a wildfire and prepare your home and
landscaping to reduce your risk.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Doctor and patient looking at
clipboard](/about/images/facts/2017/101617_AdultVaccines.jpg)

##### Week of October 16, 2017

Having an up-to-date vaccination record is important. This record tells you
and your doctor if you're protected against vaccine-preventable diseases. Use
these tools to keep track of your immunizations.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![I Am CDC](/about/images/facts/2017/1010-obesity-cancer.jpg)

##### Week of October 10, 2017

Overweight and obesity are associated with at least 13 different types of
cancer. These cancers make up 40 percent of all cancers diagnosed. Learn more.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![I Am CDC](/about/images/facts/2017/10-02-i-am-cdc.jpg)

##### Week of October 2, 2017

The "I Am CDC" videos feature CDC staff who work 24/7 to defend America from
health threats. Learn more.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![CDC Keeping You Safe 24/7](/about/images/facts/2017/09-25-keeping-you-
safe-24-7.jpg)

##### Week of September 25, 2017

In uncertain times, safeguarding America's health and security is more
important than ever. Whether the threat is a disease outbreak, chronic
condition, environmental hazard, natural disaster or deliberate attack, CDC
works 24 hours a day, 7 days a week to keep Americans safe - in the US and
around the world. Learn more.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Get Ahead of Sepsis](/about/images/facts/2017/0919-sepsis.jpg)

##### Week of September 19, 2017

Infections can put you and your family at risk for a life-threatening
condition called sepsis. Learn more.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![flooded street](/about/images/facts/2017/0911_afterstorm.jpg)

##### Week of September 11, 2017

Get tips to keep you and family safe after a hurricane.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![flooded street](/about/images/facts/2017/09.05.17_Flooding.jpg)

##### Week of September 4, 2017

Take these important steps to protect yourself, your family and your home
during a flood.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Did you know that Zika can be spread through sex? Take steps to protect
yourself and your partner. ](/about/images/facts/2017/0828_zika-
protection.jpg)

##### Week of August 28, 2017

Did you know that Zika can be spread through sex? Take steps to protect
yourself and your partner.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![](/about/images/facts/2017/08.21.17_Safeschools.jpg)

##### Week of August 21, 2017

This school year, learn actions you can take to keep kids safe and healthy in
and away from school.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![A mother and toddler on their
lawn](/about/images/facts/2017/081417_insect_repellents.jpg)

##### Week of August 14, 2017

EPA-registered insect repellents are proven safe and effective for everyone,
including children over 2 months old and pregnant and breastfeeding women.
Make sure to follow the directions on the label when applying.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Man in an electric wheelchair strolling in a park with a
friend](/about/images/facts/2017/0807-building-communities.jpg)

##### Week of August 7, 2017

Creating opportunities for healthy, active living by people of all abilities
is a priority as we plan our communities. Learn more.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![5 middle aged people](/about/images/facts/2017/0731-shingles.jpg)

##### Week of July 31, 2017

Almost 1 out of 3 people in the United States will develop shingles during
their lifetime. Your risk of shingles increases as you get older. Learn more.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Harmful algal bloom in a lake](/about/images/facts/2017/0724-harmful-algal-
blooms.jpg)

##### Week of July 24, 2017

Harmful algal blooms can produce toxins that are dangerous to people, animals,
and the environment. Learn what harmful algal blooms are, how you and your
pets can avoid them, and what CDC is doing to protect the public's health.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Control Mosquitoes](/about/images/facts/2017/07.17.17_Control-no-
mosquito.jpg)

##### Week of July 17, 2017

Everyone can do their part to help control mosquitoes. Learn how you can help.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Mother and son enjoying swimming
pool](/about/images/facts/2017/0710_healthy-swimming-year-round.jpg)

##### Week of July 10, 2017

Stay healthy and avoid recreational water illnesses (RWIs) when you swim in
pools, water playgrounds, or other treated water venues, or use the hot
tub/spa, by following a few simple steps.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![A town in the foreground and lightning striking in the
distance](/about/images/facts/2017/0703-lightning-safety.jpg)

##### Week of July 3, 2017

Is that thunder you hear? Was that a lightning flash? Learn how to protect
yourself and your loved ones during a thunderstorm.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Jars with prpared food items.](/about/images/facts/2017/06.26.17-Home-
Canning.jpg)

##### Week of June 26, 2017

Home canning is an excellent way to preserve garden produce and share it with
family and friends. But it can be risky--or even deadly--if not done correctly
and safely.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Family of three on a beach](/about/images/facts/2017/Skin-Cancer-family-
beach.jpg)

##### Week of June 19, 2017

Skin cancer is the most common cancer in the United States. Most cases of
melanoma, the deadliest kind of skin cancer, are caused by exposure to
ultraviolet (UV) rays. To lower your skin cancer risk, protect your skin from
the sun and avoid indoor tanning.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Older couple](/about/images/facts/2017/0612-cancer-survivors.jpg)

##### Week of June 12, 2017

Cancer survivors often face physical, mental, or financial problems. Learn how
you can  help.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![](/about/images/facts/2017/0605-vaccinations.jpg)

##### Week of June 5, 2017

CDC reminds you to make sure you are up to date on all recommended
vaccinations before traveling abroad **.  **

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Woman clutching headphones and
wincing](/about/images/facts/2017/0529_hearing-damage_74px.jpg)

##### Week of May 29, 2017

May is "Better Hearing and Speech Month," a time to raise awareness about what
you need to do to protect your hearing. Loud noises can cause permanent
hearing loss. And once it's gone, you can't get it back. Learn more.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Mosquito](/about/images/facts/2017/0522-mystery-diseases.jpg)

##### Week of May 22, 2017

Ever wonder how CDC scientists merge old-fashioned detective work with high-
tech science to crack the cases of mystery diseases? Get the Story! Visit the
David J. Sencer CDC Museum at CDC Headquarters. The museum is free and open to
the public so we would like to see you soon.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![EMT and ambulance](/about/images/facts/2017/0515-survive-stroke.jpg)

##### Week of May 15, 2017

When a stroke happens, every second counts. The best chance for a full
recovery from stroke comes from recognizing stroke symptoms, calling 9-1-1,
and getting treatment as quickly as possible. For National Stroke Awareness
Month, learn the symptoms of stroke and why calling 9-1-1 can help you or a
loved one survive a stroke **.**

More

![City covered in smog](/about/images/facts/2017/0501-unhealthy-air.jpg)

##### Week of May 1, 2017

Find out how air quality affects your health and use the Air Quality Index to
help plan your day.

CDC Fact of the Week

![Two women](/about/images/facts/2017/0424-seizure.jpg)

##### Week of April 24, 2017

About 1 out of 10 people may have a seizure in his or her lifetime. That means
seizures are common, and one day you might need to help someone during or
after a seizure. Learn more from CDC.  

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![group of children](/about/images/facts/2017/0419-National-Child-Abuse-
Prevention-Month.jpg)

##### Week of April 19, 2017

During National Child Abuse Prevention Month, learn about CDC's work to better
understand the problem of child abuse and neglect and to prevent it before it
begins.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Tornado](/about/images/facts/2017/0410-Spring-Weather.jpg)

##### Week of April 10, 2017

Spring weather can be unpredictable. Reduce injury risk and plan ahead.  

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Chickens](/about/images/facts/2017/0403-Salmonella-Poultry.jpg)

##### Week of April 3, 2017

Spring brings baby chicks. CDC reminds you that live poultry, such as
chickens, ducks, geese, and turkeys, often carry germs such as ****
Salmonella. After you touch a bird, or anything in the area where birds live
and roam, wash your hands so you don't get sick!  

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![conjunctivitis](/about/images/facts/2017/0327pink-eye.jpg)

##### Week of March 27, 2017

Pink eye--or conjunctivitis--is common and spreads easily. It sometimes needs
medical treatment, depending on the cause. CDC helps you to know the symptoms,
when to seek treatment, and how to help prevent it.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Stop the clot. Spread the word.](/about/images/facts/2017/0313-blood-clot-
awareness.jpg)

##### Week of March 13, 2017

Read about CDC's Stop the Clot campaign and learn how to protect yourself from
blood clots.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Dairy products](/about/images/facts/2017/0306-Rawmilk.jpg)

##### Week of March 6, 2017

Raw milk can contain harmful germs, such as bacteria, viruses, and parasites,
which can make you very sick or possibly kill you. If you're thinking about
drinking raw milk because you believe it has health benefits, consider other
options.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![a girl getting a dental exam](/about/images/facts/2017/0213-dental-
health.jpg)

##### Week of February 27, 2017

February is Children's Dental Health Month. Learn how most cavities in
children can be prevented, and how CDC brings this program to children at
highest risk for decay.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![](/about/images/facts/2017/0221-africanamerican.jpg)

##### Week of February 21, 2017

This February celebrate African American History Month. Learn about how heart
disease, cancer, and stroke impact African Americans and ****how to improve
your health **.**

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![a girl getting a dental exam](/about/images/facts/2017/0213-dental-
health.jpg)

##### Week of February 13, 2017

February is Children's Dental Health Month. Learn how most cavities in
children can be prevented, and how CDC brings this program to children at
highest risk for decay.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Woman leaning on exercise ball](/about/images/facts/2017/0206-keep-a-
healthy-heart.jpg)

##### Week of February 6, 2017

February is American Heart Month. Learn about heart disease and women and what
you can do to keep a healthy heart.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Students studying
together](/about/images/facts/2017/0130_MinorityHealth.jpg)

##### Week of January 30, 2017

CDC's Office of Minority Health and Health Equity (OMHHE) supports internship
opportunities for qualified undergraduate and graduate students to gain
meaningful experiences in public health settings. Learn about programs that
provide valuable exposure to a wide range of public health opportunities.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Zika and pregnancy](/about/images/facts/2017/0123-zika-pregnancy.jpg)

##### Week of January 23, 2017

CDC marks one year of the Zika response. Learn more about CDC's work.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Three people](/about/images/facts/2017/0117-vaccines.jpg)

##### Week of January 17, 2017

CDC reminds you that adults need vaccines too. There are many important
reasons to get vaccinated Learn more.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![House and yard covered in
snow](/about/images/facts/2017/010917_WinterWeather.jpg)

##### Week of January 9, 2017

CDC has tips to prepare you, your home and your car for winter emergencies.
Read more.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![CDC worked around the clock to keep Americans safe by stopping disease at
home and around the world in
2016.](/about/images/facts/2017/0102-working-24-7-365.jpg)

##### Week of January 2, 2017

Learn about CDC's 2016 work towards keeping Americans safe by stopping disease
at home and around the world. See CDC year in review.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Family health history](/about/images/facts/2016/1226-family-health-
history.jpg)

##### Week of December 26, 2016

This holiday season, ask family about their health, share with your doctor and
take steps to reduce disease. Act on your family's health history.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Family around a snowman](/about/images/facts/2016/1219-healthy-holiday-
tips.jpg)

##### Week of December 19, 2016

CDC offers 12 ways for you and your loved ones to stay safe and healthy this
holiday season.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Baby chewing on toy](/about/images/facts/2016/1212_lead-in-toys.jpg)

##### Week of December 12, 2016

CDC reminds you **** to **** protect children from potential lead hazards in
some holiday toys and toy jewelry. Check out these tips.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![VERB Logo](/about/images/facts/2016/1205_VERB.jpg)

##### Week of December 5, 2016

In 2002, Congress provided resources for CDC to launch a national,
multicultural, social marketing campaign to respond to the growing problem of
childhood obesity. The campaign,  _VERB ™ It's what you do_, encouraged
tweens, ages 9-13, to be more physically active.

CDC Fact of the Week

![Graphic - Zika Action Plan summit](/about/images/facts/2016/1128-EOC-
zika.jpg)

##### Week of November 28, 2016

In 2016 CDC activated its Emergency Operations Center to respond to the Zika
Virus outbreak. CDC hosted the Zika Action Plan Summit to provide state and
local senior officials with information and tools needed to improve Zika
preparedness and response.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![A room full of people sitting behind
computers](/about/images/facts/2016/1121_EOC.jpg)

##### Week of November 21, 2016

In 2014 CDC activated its Emergency Operations Center to respond to the
largest Ebola outbreak in history affecting multiple countries in West Africa.
CDC helped coordinate the response at the national level, providing health
education and assisting with database management. CDC trained teams of people
to do contact tracing, to help find everyone who came in direct contact with a
sick Ebola patients.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![A Haitian mother and child](/about/images/facts/2016/11.14.16_Haiti-
Earthquake.jpg)

##### Week of November 13, 2016

In 2010, in the aftermath of the 7.0 magnitude earthquake in Haiti, CDC
response effort helps prevent 7,000 deaths from cholera.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![a group of 4 people](/about/images/facts/2016/11.07.16_Avian-Humans.jpg)

Week of November 7, 2016

In 2009 CDC identifies the novel H1N1 influenza virus. The H1N1 flu pandemic
dominates CDC activity for the year, and demonstrates CDC's unique ability to
assess and explain risk.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![People wearing PPEs](/about/images/facts/2016/1031_SARS.jpg)

Week of October 31, 2016

Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) is first discovered in Asia in 2003.
CDC responds by providing guidance for surveillance, clinical and laboratory
evaluation, and reporting.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![X-ray](/about/images/facts/2016/1024_anthrax.jpg)

Week of October 24, 2016

In 2001 CDC was involved with the World Trade Center and bioterrorist anthrax
attacks and response. See more in the EID - Investigation of Bioterrorism-
Related Anthrax, United States, 2001: Epidemiologic Findings.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![Building](/about/images/facts/2016/1017_stockpile.jpg)

Week of October 17, 2016

In 1999 CDC launched National Pharmaceutical Stockpile (now the ), a stockpile
of drugs, vaccines, and other medical products and supplies, to provide for
the emergency health security of the US and its territories.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![Two girls](/about/images/facts/2016/1010-VFC.jpg)

Week of October 10, 2016

In 1994 the Vaccines for Children Program was established. It's a federally
funded program that provides vaccines at no cost to children who might not
otherwise be vaccinated because of inability to pay. Learn more here.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![CDC Building](/about/images/facts/2016/1003-cdc-building.jpg)

Week of October 3, 2016

In 1992, the agency is renamed Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to
reflect a broader role and vision. The agency is asked by Congress to continue
using the initials "CDC."

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![Group of school children](/about/images/facts/2016/0919-chronic-disease.jpg)

Week of September 19, 2016

In 1988 CDC establishes the Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health
Promotion to target chronic diseases such as heart disease, cancer, and
diabetes.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![Act against AIDS](/about/images/facts/2016/0912-act-against-aids.jpg)

Week of September 12, 2016

In 1981 MMWR (Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report) publishes a report of
five cases of _Pneumocystis carinii_ pneumonia (PCP) among previously healthy
young men in Los Angeles. Local clinicians and the Epidemic Intelligence
Service (EIS) officer stationed at the Los Angeles County Department of Public
Health prepares the report and submits it to MMWR. CDC develops an
investigative team to identify risk factors and to develop a case definition
for national surveillance (First AIDS cases reported).

More

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![Road to Zero](/about/images/facts/2016/0829-the-road-to-zero-flex.jpg)

Week of August 29, 2016

In 1976 CDC sends disease detectives to investigate two large outbreaks of an
unknown deadly hemorrhagic fever in Zaire and Sudan, a disease later known as
Ebola. Nearly 4 decades later Ebola was making news around the world. Since
March 2014, West Africa has experienced the largest outbreak of Ebola in
history. CDC and partners have worked to contain this epidemic at its source.
Learn more.  

More

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![](/about/images/facts/2016/0822-1970-CDC-History.jpg)

Week of August 22, 2016

In 1970 the National Communicable Disease Center (NCDC) is renamed Center for
Disease Control (CDC). In 1979 CDC assumes lead responsibility in the US
Public Health Service for environmental emergency response.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![Graphic: Woman holding
child](/about/images/facts/2016/0815_immunizations.jpg)

Week of August 15, 2016

In 1963 the Immunization Assistance Grant Program is established and CDC
administers the Vaccination Assistance Act through project grants. The program
is designed to raise and maintain high levels of immunization against;
poliomyelitis, diphtheria, pertussis, and tetanus.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![](/about/images/facts/2016/0808_Tuberculosis.jpg)

Week of August 8, 2016

In 1960, the Tuberculosis Program transfers from the US Public Health Service
to CDC. The Tuberculosis laboratory is already in Atlanta at Lawson General
Hospital, having moved there several years earlier.

In the early 20th century, TB was the leading cause of death in the United
States. From that point TB cases steadily declined until the 1980s and early
1990s when a TB resurgence occurred with over 25,000 TB cases being reported
per year. The resurgence was associated with the emergence of the HIV
epidemic, increased immigration from countries with high TB rates, and a
deterioration of TB control programs in many jurisdictions. Following a major
investment in TB control activities at all levels of government, TB cases
began to decline again. In 2014, the reported number of US TB cases was 9,421,
with a case rate of 3.0 cases per 100,000 population (30 per million
population). Since the 1992 TB resurgence peak in the United States, the
number of TB cases reported annually has decreased by 65 percent.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![](/about/images/facts/2016/0801_Asianflu.jpg)

Week of August 1, 2016

In 1957, the Asian flu pandemic emerged in Hong Kong with millions of cases
and thousands of deaths. CDC quickly set up an influenza surveillance unit, a
joint operation of the Epidemiology and Laboratory Branches.  

In January 2016, an outbreak of HPAI (H7N8) virus was reported in a commercial
turkey flock in Dubois County, Indiana. LPAI (H7N8) was subsequently detected
in eight nearby turkey flocks. No transmission of HPAI (H7N8) or LPAI (H7N8)
virus to humans was reported. More information is available here.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

##### ![a medic administering polio vaccine drops to a
child](/about/images/facts/2016/0725-polio-drops.jpg) Week of July 25, 2016

In 1955 during the National Polio Immunization Program, EIS officers trace 260
polio cases to improper vaccine production methods. As a result, CDC
establishes the Polio Surveillance Program.

In 1988, the World Health Assembly adopted a resolution for the worldwide
eradication of polio. It marked the launch of the Global Polio Eradication
Initiative (GPEI), spearheaded by national governments, CDC, Rotary
International, WHO, and UNICEF, with substantial support from the Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![In 1948 CDC conducts the first training courses in Laboratory Diagnosis of
Tuberculosis](/about/images/facts/2016/0711-lab-tb.jpg)

##### Week of July 11, 2016

In 1948 CDC conducts the first training courses in Laboratory Diagnosis of
Tuberculosis and Mycotic Diseases. Today Tuberculosis (TB) is still one of the
world's deadliest diseases:

One third of the world's population is infected with TB.

In 2014, 9.6 million people around the world became sick with TB disease.
There were 1.5 million TB-related deaths worldwide.

TB is a leading killer of people who are HIV infected.

More



CDC Fact of the Week

![In 1948 CDC conducts the first training courses in Laboratory Diagnosis of
Tuberculosis](/about/images/facts/2016/0711-lab-tb.jpg)

##### Week of July 11, 2016

In 1948 CDC conducts the first training courses in Laboratory Diagnosis of
Tuberculosis and Mycotic Diseases. Today Tuberculosis (TB) is still one of the
world's deadliest diseases:

One third of the world's population is infected with TB.

In 2014, 9.6 million people around the world became sick with TB disease.
There were 1.5 million TB-related deaths worldwide.

TB is a leading killer of people who are HIV infected.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![](/about/images/facts/2016/070416-disaster-aid.jpg)

##### Week of July 4, 2016

In 1949 CDC offered disaster aid in response to multiple chemical explosions
in Texas City, TX. Afterwards, CDC was designated as the  official response
agency for future epidemics and disasters. Today The Emergency Operations
Center (EOC) brings together scientists from across CDC to analyze, validate,
and efficiently exchange information during a public health emergency and
connect with emergency response partners. When activated for a response, the
EOC can accommodate up to 230 personnel per 8-hour shift to handle situations
ranging from local interests to worldwide incidents.

The EOC coordinates the deployment of CDC staff and the procurement and
management of all equipment and supplies that CDC responders may need during
their deployment.

In addition, the EOC has the ability to rapidly transport life-supporting
medications, samples and specimens, and personnel anywhere in the world around
the clock within two hours of notification for domestic missions and six hours
for international missions.

Since its inception in September 2001, the EOC has responded to more than 50
public health threats, including hurricanes, food borne disease outbreaks, the
2009 H1N1 influenza pandemic, and the Haiti cholera outbreak. In addition to
emergencies, the EOC may also be activated for planned events (e.g.,
presidential inaugurations and Olympics taking place in the US) to monitor for
incidents that may affect the public's health. See comprehensive list of
public health responses supported by the EOC since 2001.

CDC Fact of the Week

![](/about/images/facts/2016/0627-milestones.jpg)

##### Week of June 27, 2016

**CDC celebrates its 70th anniversary July 1. To mark this milestone, our
Facts of the Week for the rest of the   year will reflect various public
health milestones, providing a look at then and now. **

July 1, 1946 Malaria Control in War Areas, a program within the US Public
Health Service, transitions into the Communicable Disease Center (CDC) on July
1. By 1951 Malaria is considered eliminated from the US. Flash forward to
January 22, 2016. CDC's Emergency Operations Center (EOC) was activated for
Zika virus disease on January 22, 2016, and moved to a level 1 activation--the
highest level--on February 8, 2016.

CDC Fact of the Week

![Grocery store receipt](/about/images/facts/2016/0620_Solving_Outbreaks.jpg)

##### Week of June 20, 2016

**Each year, about 1 in 6 Americans (or 48 million people) get sick from a
foodborne illness.** CDC offers ways you can help protect others from getting
sick.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![](/about/images/facts/2016/0613-Survivors.jpg)

##### Week of June 13, 2016

Cancer survivors are living longer after their diagnosis, but at least one-
third of the more than 14 million survivors in the United States face
physical, mental, social, job, or financial problems related to their cancer
experience. CDC works with community partners to bring attention to these and
other challenges faced by cancer survivors and provide education on ways to
improve survivors' health and quality of life.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![](/about/images/facts/2016/0606_Hurricane.jpg)

##### Week of June 6, 2016

**If you live in coastal areas at risk, CDC encourages you to begin preparing
yourself for hurricane season.** The Atlantic hurricane season is June 1
through November 30 each year. Please follow these important hurricane
preparedness tips from CDC.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![](/about/images/facts/2016/0531-healthy-swimming.jpg)

##### Week of May 31, 2016

Pools, waterparks, hot tubs/spas, and water playgrounds are great places to
have fun, be active, or just relax. Having fun while you are in the water this
summer means knowing how to stay healthy and safe! Learn more from CDC.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![](/about/images/facts/2016/0524-flood-safety.jpg)

##### Week of May 24, 2016

**CDC provides** important steps to take **before, during, and after a
flood.**

More

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![Woman framing eyes with
fingers](/about/images/facts/2016/05.16.16_HealthyVision.jpg)

Week of May 16, 2016

**May is Healthy Vision Month.** CDC reminds you eye diseases are common and
can go unnoticed for a long time--some have no symptoms. CDC offers tips for
vision health.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![Clean Hands Count](/about/images/facts/2016/05.09.16_handhygiene.gif)

Week of May 9, 2016

**CDC reminds you clean hands can protect you from serious infections while
you are a patient in a healthcare facility.** Most germs that cause serious
infections in healthcare are spread by people's actions. Hand hygiene is a
great way to prevent infections.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![Group of men and women](/about/images/facts/2016/05.02.16_Arthritis-on-
rise.jpg)

Week of May 2, 2016

**About 53 million US adults have arthritis.** However, the number of men and
women with arthritis is growing and expected to reach more than 78 million in
2040, according to a new CDC study. Learn what to do so you feel your best
with arthritis.  

More

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![Minority Health](/about/images/facts/2016/0425-Minority-health.jpg)

Week of April 25, 2016

**April is National Minority Health Month.** The theme for 2016 is
"Accelerating Health Equity for the Nation." Learn what CDC is doing and help
raise awareness of the health disparities that affect minorities.  

More

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![Handwashing](/about/images/facts/2016/0418-handwashing.jpg)

Week of April 18, 2016

**Handwashing is one of the best ways to protect yourself and your family from
getting sick.** CDC has tips on how and when to wash your hands to protect
yourself and others.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![Mother and daughter reading book](/about/images/facts/2016/04.11.16_Child-
Develpment.jpg)

Week of April 11, 2016

**High-quality early intervention services can change a child 's developmental
path and improve outcomes for children, families, and communities**. CDC
advises if you're concerned about your child's development, don't wait. You
know your child best. Use a developmental milestones checklist, talk with your
child's doctor, and call your local early intervention program.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![Hands joined in a circle](/about/images/facts/2016/0404-national-public-
health-week.jpg)

Week of April 4, 2016

**April 4-10, 2016 is National Public Health Week.** Read more about this
year's public health themes and how CDC is working towards the mission of
Healthiest Nation 2030.

More



CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![Doctor comforting patient](/about/images/facts/2016/0328_deep-vein-
thrombosis.jpg)

Week of March 28, 2016

**March is Deep Vein Thrombosis Awareness Month.** CDC asks, are you at risk?
Learn the signs and symptoms.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![Group of people on the
beach](/about/images/facts/2016/03.21.16_TravelBug.jpg)

Week of March 21, 2016

**Bitten by the travel bug for spring break this year?** Follow these CDC tips
to reduce your risk of illness or injury abroad.  

More

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![Nurse showing chart to
woman](/about/images/facts/2016/03.14.16_kidney_health.jpg)

Week of March 14, 2016

**Turn to CDC for information on  kidney health.** Your kidneys aren't very
large--each is just the size of a computer mouse--but they're hard-working.
How well are your kidneys working?

More

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![crowd of people](/about/images/facts/2016/0307-Health-Disparities.jpg)

Week of March 7, 2016

Reducing health disparities brings us closer to reaching health equity. Learn
about health equity and what CDC is doing to reduce health disparities.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![Woman sleeping](/about/images/facts/2016/0229-getting-enough-sleep.jpg)

Week of February 29, 2016

**35 percent of US adults do not get enough sleep, reports CDC**. Not getting
enough sleep continues to be a problem in the US.

Are you one of those adults? Learn more about your risk and how many adults
don't get enough sleep.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![Woman with exercise ball](/about/images/facts/2016/0222-heart-disease.jpg)

Week of February 22, 2016

**February is American Heart Month.** Learn about heart disease in women and
what you can do to keep a healthy heart.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![bacteria](/about/images/facts/2016/0215-globalhealth.jpg)

Week of February 15, 2016

CDC has 17,000 staff in more than 60 countries. Learn what we are doing.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![](/about/images/facts/2016/02.08.16_Lead-Exposure.jpg)

##### Week of February 8, 2016

**CDC reminds you lead poisoning can be prevented.** The key is to keep
children from coming in contact with lead. If children are lead poisoned they
must be treated. Learn how to prevent children's exposure to lead **.    **

More

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![mosquito](/about/images/facts/2016/0201-Zika-Virus.jpg)

Week of February 1, 2016

Learn more about Zika virus. CDC has information on symptoms and how the virus
spreads.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![Smiling girl](/about/images/facts/2016/01.25.16_birth-defects.jpg)

Week of January 25, 2016

Did you know that birth defects affect one in every 33 babies born in the
United States? That means about one child in every school classroom might be
affected. Those are not just numbers--they represent real babies and families.
CDC provides these family stories to learn more about birth defects and how
these conditions can impact lives.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![Tracking Network](/about/images/facts/2016/0118-tracking-network.jpg)

Week of January 18, 2016

CDC's Tracking Network is an excellent data source for environmental hazards,
exposures, and health conditions that can be a valuable asset to the health
impact assessment process. Learn more.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![](/about/images/facts/2016/01.11.16_Healthy_New_Year.jpg)

Week of January 11, 2016

Make 2016 your healthiest year yet! CDC suggests ways to boost your health and
well-being, and be an inspiration!  

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Family in bed blowing their
noses](/about/images/facts/2016/0104-rhinoviruses.jpg)

##### Week of January 4, 2016

CDC reminds you to protect yourself and others from the common cold. Here are
some tips.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![HPV Vaccine](/about/images/facts/2015/1221-HPV-vaccine.jpg)

##### Week of December 28, 2015

**Many people think the HPV vaccine only protects girls, but this vaccine
protects boys against certain HPV-related cancers, too!** See the guidance
from CDC.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Healthy Tips](/about/images/facts/2015/1221-Healthy-Tips.jpg)

##### Week of December 21, 2015

CDC suggests 12 ways to have a healthy holiday season.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Lead Hazards](/about/images/facts/2015/1214-lead-hazards.jpg)

##### Week of December 14, 2015

**Protect children from potential lead hazards in some holiday toys and toy
jewelry.** See tips from CDC.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Man working outside with a snow shovel](/about/images/facts/2015/1207-cold-
weather.jpg)

##### Week of December 7, 2015

**CDC reminds you, when workers do jobs in the cold, there are many risks**.
Some cold weather dangers are obvious, but others are harder to see. When you
must work in the cold, always be prepared and **** be aware **.**

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![](/about/images/facts/2015/11.30.15_Family_Health_History.jpg)

##### Week of November 30, 2015

**Gather and Share Your Family Health History**  

CDC encourages you to know your family health history. If you are concerned
about a disease running in your family, collect your family health history and
talk to your doctor at your next visit. A doctor can evaluate all of the
factors, including family health history, that may affect your risk of
diseases and can recommend ways to reduce that risk. Learn more.  

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![](/about/images/facts/2015/11.23.15_Pregnancy-Flu.jpg)

##### Week of November 23, 2015

**CDC reminds you, if you 're pregnant, a flu shot is your best protection
against serious flu illness. **A flu shot can protect pregnant women, their
unborn babies, and even the baby after birth.  

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![National Epilepsy Awareness Month](/about/images/facts/2015/1116-epilepsy-
awareness.jpg)

##### Week of November 16, 2015

November is National Epilepsy Awareness Month . Because anyone can have a
seizure, CDC encourages you to recognize seizure symptoms and to know how to
help.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![living with diabates](/about/images/facts/2015/1109-livingwithdiabetes.jpg)

##### Week of November 9, 2015

November is National Diabetes Month and CDC urges you to take charge of your
type 1 or type 2 diabetes for a longer, healthier life. Get more information
here.  

CDC Fact of the Week

![carbon monoxide poisoning](/about/images/facts/2015/1102-carbon-
monoxide.jpg)

##### Week of November 2, 2015

**CDC reminds you to check the batteries in your carbon monoxide (CO)
detector. If you don 't have a battery-powered or battery back-up CO alarm,
now is a great time to buy one. At least 430 people die each year in the
United States from unintentional, non-fire related CO poisoning.**

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Bullying Prevention](/about/images/facts/2015/10.26.15_bully-prevention-
awareness.jpg)

##### Week of October 26, 2015

**October is National Bullying Prevention Awareness Month, which provides a
perfect opportunity for schools, communities, and states to talk about the
best ways to prevent bullying.** CDC's Division of Violence Prevention
recognizes efforts to improve the school environment and to prevent bullying
nationwide. We invite you to learn about bullying and what you can do to
prevent it.  

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Health IQ](/about/images/facts/2015/1019-health-IQ.jpg)

##### Week of October 19, 2015

**CDC challenges you to test your Health IQ.** Do you know the minimum SPF
needed to protect yourself from the sun's harmful rays? Or how many seconds
you should wash your hands to kill germs? Test your Health IQ to see how your
health skills stack up.  

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![](/about/images/facts/2015/10.13.15_Environmental_Exposure.jpg)

##### Week of October 13, 2015

**Children 's rapid development during the fetal period through early
childhood makes them more vulnerable to environmental exposure. **Learn more
from CDC

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Hispanic Health Focus - Group of
people](/about/images/facts/2015/10-05-15_Hispanic_Health_Focus.jpg)

##### Week of October 5, 2015

**During National Hispanic Heritage Month, September 15 through October 15, we
celebrate the culture of US residents who trace their roots to Spain, Mexico,
and the Spanish-speaking nations of Central America, South America, and the
Caribbean.** While heritage includes the great traditions of family, respect
for others, and festivities, it also includes the challenge of hereditary
health conditions. CDC suggests you can celebrate by taking care of your
health to prevent type 2 diabetes.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![World Alzheimer's Month](/about/images/facts/2015/0928-world-alzheimers-
day.jpg)

##### Week of September 28, 2015

**World Alzheimer 's Month 2015 focuses on learning to spot the signs of
dementia and supporting loved ones who are living with dementia. **Get the
facts about Alzheimer's disease from CDC.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![](/about/images/facts/2015/09.21.15_InfantMortality.jpg)

##### Week of September 21, 2015

**September Is Infant Mortality Awareness Month**. CDC has information to help
you **** learn more about infant mortality risk factors and take action to
reduce the risk.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![family sitting with
infant](/about/images/facts/2015/09-14-15_preparedness.jpg)

##### Week of September 14, 2015

**September is National Preparedness Month, a great time to think about how
prepared you are for an emergency**. CDC has tips for you.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![](/about/images/facts/2015/08-31-15_Keeping_Children_Safe.jpg)

##### Week of August 31, 2015

**School is back in session.** As you stock up on pencils, take first-day
pictures, and adjust to new bus schedules, CDC offers a few quick steps you
can take to keep your child safer during an emergency.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Group of young adults](/about/images/facts/2015/0824-back-to-school.jpg)

Week of August 24, 2015

**Going to college is an exciting time in a young person 's life. **CDC offers
6 tips for college health and safety **.  **

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![CDC Health Information for International
Travel](/about/images/facts/2015/0817_yellowbook.jpg)

Week of August 17, 2015  
**Do you have the latest travel health recommendations?** Use the new **_CDC
Health Information for International Travel 2016  _**(the Yellow Book) for
your pre-travel health questions.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Group of children](/about/images/facts/2015/0810_Immunizations.jpg)

Week of August 10, 2015

**School-age children, from preschoolers to college students, need vaccines.**
CDC has online resources and tools to help parents and doctors make sure all
kids are up to date on recommended vaccines and protected from serious
diseases.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Sun Protection](/about/images/facts/2015/0803-sun-protection.jpg)

Week of August 3, 2015

**How can you protect your family from the sun?** CDC has tips.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![](/about/images/facts/2015/072715-ADA.jpg) Week of July 27, 2015

**July 26** **th  marked the 25** **th  anniversary of the landmark Americans
with Disabilities Act (ADA), a civil rights law that strengthens the inclusion
of people with disabilities at work, school, or other community settings**.
Learn what CDC is doing to include people with disabilities in public health
research and health promotion activities.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![](/about/images/facts/2015/0720-fruits-vegetables.jpg) Week of July 20, 2015

**Eat More Fruits and Vegetables.** Fewer than 1 in 5 adults are consuming
enough fruit and vegetables in every state in the union.

More



CDC Fact of the Week

![Immunization
Schedules](/about/images/facts/2015/071315_Immunization_Schedules.jpg)

Week of July 13, 2015

**Immunization Schedules.** The US recommended immunization schedules for
children and adults are regularly reviewed and updated based on the most
current data.

More



CDC Fact of the Week

![Cancer Survivors](/about/images/facts/2015/0706-cancer.jpg)

Week of July 6, 2015

**While cancer survivors are living longer after their diagnosis, at least
one-third of the more than 14 million survivors in the United States face
physical, mental, social, job, or financial problems related to their cancer
experience**. CDC works with community partners to bring attention to these
and other challenges faced by cancer survivors and provide education on ways
to improve survivors' health and quality of life.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Heathy Swimming](/about/images/facts/2015/0629-healthy-swimming.jpg)

Week of June 29, 2015

**Pools, waterparks, hot tubs/spas, and splash pad** **are great places to
have fun, be active, or just relax.** CDC has tips on ways to stay healthy and
safe while enjoying the water!

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Elder abuse is a significant public health
problem](/about/images/facts/2015/06.22.15_Elder-Abuse.jpg)

##### Week of June 22, 2015

**Elder abuse is a significant public health problem**. Each year, hundreds of
thousands of adults over the age of 60 are abused, neglected, or financially
exploited. CDC works to prevent violence before it occurs. Learn more about
elder abuse prevention.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Hurricane readiness](/about/images/facts/2015/0615-hurricane-season.jpg)

##### Week of June 15, 2015

**If you live in coastal areas at risk, CDC encourages you to begin preparing
yourself for hurricane season. The Atlantic hurricane season is June 1 through
November 30 each year.** Please follow these important hurricane readiness
tips from CDC.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![CDC Lab Worker](/about/images/facts/2015/0608-protect-america.jpg)

##### Week of June 8, 2015

CDC works 24/7 to protect America from health, safety and security threats,
both foreign and in the US Whether diseases start at home or abroad, are
chronic or acute, curable or preventable, human error or deliberate attack.
Learn more about CDC's mission, role and pledge.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Lightining](/about/images/facts/2015/0601-spring-weather.jpg)

##### Week of June 1, 2015

**Spring weather can be unpredictable.** CDC reminds you when severe weather
hits unexpectedly, the risk of injury and death increases, so planning ahead
makes sense. Prepare for storms, floods, and tornadoes as if you know in
advance they are coming, because in the spring, they very likely will.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![National Fitness and Sports Month](/about/images/facts/2015/0526-national-
Fitness.jpg)

##### Week of May 26, 2015

**May is National Fitness and Sports Month.** CDC recommends finding and
creating opportunities to add more physical activity into your daily routine
and encourage family and friends to do the same.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![](/about/images/facts/2015/0518_ALS.jpg)

##### Week of May 18, 2015

**The CDC/ATSDR National ALS Registry contributes to a better understanding of
ALS and helps create a better future for the next generation of persons living
with ALS.** Read the latest and learn more about **ALS and the ALS Registry**
**.**

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Home canned food](/about/images/facts/2015/05.04.15_home-canned-goodies.jpg)

##### Week of May 11, 2015

**Home canning is an excellent way to preserve garden produce and share it
with family and friends, but it can be risky or even deadly if not done
correctly and safely.** It's almost summer, and home gardeners will soon start
to harvest the delicious produce they've been growing this year. See CDC's
tips to protect yourself, your family, and others when you share your home-
canned goodies.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Photo: Hen](/about/images/facts/2015/0504-avian-flu.jpg)

##### Week of May 4, 2015

**Highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) H5 infections have been reported in
US domestic poultry (backyard and commercial flocks), captive wild birds, and
wild birds**. CDC reports no human infections with these viruses have been
detected at this time, however similar viruses have infected people in other
countries and caused serious illness and death in some cases.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Glass of beer on
bar](/about/images/facts/2015/042715_AlcoholAwarenessMonth.jpg)

##### Week of April 27, 2015

**CDC reminds you that April is Alcohol Awareness Month.** By not drinking too
much, you can reduce the risk of short- and long-term health risks.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![e-cigarette](/about/images/facts/2015/042015-e-cigarette.jpg)

##### Week of April 20, 2015

**Current e-cigarette use among middle and high school students tripled from
2013 to 2014, according to data published by CDC and the FDA.** This is the
first time since the survey started collecting data on e-cigarettes in 2011
that current e-cigarette use has surpassed current use of every other tobacco
product overall, including conventional cigarettes.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![listeriosis outbreak](/about/images/facts/2015/041315-outbreak-
listeriosis.jpg)

##### Week of April 13, 2015

**CDC recommends that consumers do not eat any Blue Bell brand products made
at the Oklahoma production facility, nor any recalled products, and that
retailers and institutions do not serve or sell them.  ** Learn more about the
outbreak of listeriosis.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Get 2 Zero](/about/images/facts/2015/040615_Getting_to_Zero.jpg)

##### Week of April 6, 2015

**Progress has been made in the year since CDC first responded to the Ebola
outbreak in West Africa, but CDC 's and the world's efforts must continue
until there are zero new cases.**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Youth Violence](/about/images/facts/2015/03.30.15_Youth-violence.jpg)

##### Week of March 30, 2015

**Youth violence is a significant public health problem that causes
considerable harm to young people, families, and communities.** Learn about
CDC's work leveraging partnerships across jurisdictions through the STRYVE
Action Council, a multi-sector group of organizations with the common
objective of mobilizing and sustaining actions that prevent youth violence
before it starts.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Deep Vein Thrombosis](/about/images/facts/2015/0323-Deep-Vein-
Thrombosis.jpg)

##### Week of March 23, 2015

**March is Deep Vein Thrombosis Awareness Month.** Are you are at risk for
blood clots? Learn the symptoms and steps to protect yourself.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![Emergency preparedness for
Children](/about/images/facts/2015/031615-Preparedness-for-Children.jpg)

##### Week of March 16, 2015

**Public health emergencies can happen at any time, anywhere**. Natural
disasters, epidemics, and terrorist attacks that have occurred in recent years
have underscored the importance of local, state, and federal public health
systems in preparing for potential health threats. CDC's next Grand Rounds
March 17, at 1:00 p.m. ET will discuss strategies to address the unique
vulnerabilities of children in every stage of emergency planning. A live
external webcast will be available. Check here for more information.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![truck driver safety](/about/images/facts/2015/0309-truck-safety.jpg)

##### Week of March 9, 2015

Crashes are the leading cause of on the job death for truck drivers in the US.
Learn more.

More

CDC Fact of the Week

![C. difficile](/about/images/facts/2015/0302-C.difficile.jpg)

##### Week of March 2, 2015

**A CDC study finds that nearly half a million Americans suffer from _C.
difficile_ infections in a single year.** Learn of what can be deadly
diarrhea.

CDC Fact of the Week

![CRE Infections](/about/images/facts/2015/0223-CRE-Infections.jpg)

##### Week of February 23, 2015

**Some germs are beating even our strongest antibiotics. Rapid action by
clinicians and healthcare leaders is needed to stop the rise of lethal CRE
infections.** Learn more .

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![meales](/about/images/facts/2015/0217-measles.jpg)

##### Week of February 17, 2015

**CDC encourages you to learn how to protect your family from** **measles** .

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Cigarette icon](/about/images/facts/2015/0209-secondhand-Smoke.jpg)

##### Week of February 9, 2015

Did you know that no level of secondhand smoke (SHS) exposure is safe? SHS
exposure occurs when nonsmokers breathe in smoke exhaled by smokers or from
burning tobacco products. It kills more than 400 infants and 41,000 adult
nonsmokers every year. CDC encourages you to learn more.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Disease Detectives](/about/images/facts/2015/0202-disease-detectives.jpg)

##### Week of February 2, 2015

**Watch CDC at Workvideos to learn more about CDC′s role in detecting disease
outbreaks, responding to emergencies, researching ways to help you stay
healthy, and more.**

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Winter is Coming...](/about/images/facts/2015/0126-winter-weather.jpg)

##### Week of January 26, 2015

**In the path of the northeast snow storm?** Make sure you have your emergency
supplies beforehand. Be prepared for severe winter weather.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Two workers in scrubs](/about/images/facts/2015/0118-Haiti.jpg)

##### Week of January 19, 2015

**Five years after the devastating earthquake in 2010 left millions in need of
urgent medical care, Haiti has made significant progress toward rebuilding the
national public health system**.CDC has led the reconstruction of the health
sector to establish disease surveillance systems, enhance laboratory capacity,
and develop human capacity in clinical services, epidemiology, and public
health leadership. .

CDC Fact of the Week

![Binge Drinking](/about/images/facts/2015/0112-binge-drinking.jpg)

##### Week of January 12, 2015

**An average of 6 people die of alcohol poisoning each day in the US**.
Alcohol poisoning is caused by drinking large quantities of alcohol in a short
period of time. Learn more from the CDC.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![New Years resolution: Quit Smoking](/about/images/facts/2015/0105-quit-
smoking.jpg)

##### Week of January 5, 2015

**Smoking is still the number one cause of preventable death and disease in
the United States**. If quitting is on your calendar for 2015, see these tips
from CDC

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Women's Health](/about/images/facts/2014/2014-1229-Womens-Health.jpg)

##### Week of December 29, 2014

**CDC 's contributions to women's health in 2014 focused on better
understanding, improving, and promoting the health, safety, and quality of
life of women of all ages.** Learn more

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Mission Critical](/about/images/facts/2014/20141222-mission-critical.jpg)

##### Week of December 22, 2014

**Read about the** **for 2014 and CDC 's mission critical role.**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Winter Storms](/about/images/facts/2014/20141215-winter-storms.jpg)

##### Week of December 15, 2014

**Winter storms and cold temperatures can be hazardous, but if you plan ahead,
you can stay safe and healthy.** Check out CDC's tips to prepare your home and
cars and for power outages and outdoor activity.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Seasonal Flu](/about/images/facts/2014/20141208-flu-season.jpg)

##### Week of December 8, 2014

**Have questions about the flu?** Find out what you need to know from the CDC.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![World Aids Day](/about/images/facts/2014/20141201-world-AIDS-day.jpg)

##### Week of December 1, 2014

**On December 1, people throughout the world observe World AIDS Day, an
opportunity for the global community to honor those living with HIV; the
families, friends, caregivers, and communities who support them; and those who
have lost their lives to AIDS.** As a science-based public health and disease
prevention agency, CDC provides support that helps more than 60 countries
strengthen their national HIV/AIDS programs and build sustainable public
health systems. CDC conducts these activities through the US President's
Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR)external icon, the largest commitment
by any nation to combat a single disease.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Middle aged man at the dinner
table](/about/images/facts/2014/20141124-diabetes.jpg)

##### Week of November 24, 2014

**CDC offers tips to help you manage your diabetes during the holidays.** Stay
on track by taking medications on schedule and choosing healthy versions of
favorite dishes. Remember to plan daily physical activities like walking after
meals and dancing at festivities. And read the other suggestions.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Icon of a woman](/about/images/facts/2014/20141117-cervical-cancer.jpg)

##### Week of November 17, 2014

**Four thousand women die of cervical cancer each year, yet as many as 93% of
cervical cancers could be prevented by screening and HPV (human
papillomavirus) vaccination.  **CDC wants you to learn more about preventing
cervical cancer.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Graphic: CO Detector](/about/images/facts/2014/2014-1110-CO-Detector.jpg)

##### Week of November 10, 2014

**CDC offers tips to prevent carbon monoxide poisoning.** If you don't have a
battery-powered or battery back-up CO alarm, now is a great time to buy one.
At least 430 people die each year in the US from unintentional, non-fire
related CO poisoning.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Grpahic: Document
icon](/about/images/facts/2014/20141103-ebolafactsheet.jpg)

##### Week of November 3, 2014

**This fact sheet explains CDC 's updated guidance to protect America from
Ebola.** This updated guidance focuses on strengthening how we monitor people
who may have been exposed to Ebola and how medical professionals will oversee
their care and, when warranted to protect the public health or our
communities, limit their movement or activities.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Photo: Three women](/about/images/facts/2014/20141027-mammogram.jpg)

##### Week of October 27, 2014

**If you are 50 to 74 years old, CDC recommends a screening mammogram every
two years.** Other than skin cancer, breast cancer is the most common cancer
among American women. Getting mammograms regularly can lower the risk of dying
from breast cancer. Get more information.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Photo: Young girl sick in
bed](/about/images/facts/2014/20141014-Enteroviruses.jpg)

##### Week of October 20, 2014

**CDC Develops a New, Faster Lab Test for Enterovirus D68.** Get more
information on the test and the virus.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Photo: Young girl sick in
bed](/about/images/facts/2014/20141014-Enteroviruses.jpg)

##### Week of October 14, 2014

**CDC reminds you that every year, millions of children in the United States
catch enteroviruses that can cause coughing, sneezing, and fever.** This year,
the enterovirus that is most commonly causing respiratory illness in children
across the country is enterovirus-D68 (EV-D68). Take basic steps to keep your
child from getting and spreading EV-D68 **.**

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Photo: Man holding a toddler](/about/images/facts/2014/20141006-Flu-
Vaccine.jpg)

##### Week of October 6, 2014

**CDC reminds you that everyone 6 months and older should get an annual flu
vaccine.** It takes about two weeks after vaccination for your body to develop
full protection against the flu. Get vaccinated now to protect yourself and
your loved ones!

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Photo: Raccoon](/about/images/facts/2014/20140929-World-Rabies-Day.jpg)

##### Week of September 29, 2014

**World Rabies Day is September 28.** CDC encourages to take steps to keep
yourself and your family free from rabies. Get the facts on rabies prevention
and control.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![U.S. presidential seal](/about/images/facts/2014/20140922CARB.jpg)

##### Week of September 22, 2014

**CDC is working to detecting, prevent and control antibiotic resistance.**
Learn more about the ways the agency is supporting the President's Executive
Orderexternal icon and the White House _National Strategy to Combat
Antibiotic-Resistant Bacteria._

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Photo: Baby Blocks](/about/images/facts/2014/20140915-infant-mortality.jpg)

##### Week of September 15, 2014

During Infant Mortality Awareness Month, CDC encourages you to learn more
about infant mortality risk factors and take action to reduce the risk.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Photo: Emergency checklist](/about/images/facts/2014/20140908_Ready.jpg)

##### Week of September 8, 2014

**Would you be ready if there were an emergency? CDC remind you to be
prepared**. Visit our website.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Graphic: Child Immunization](/about/images/facts/2014/20140902-child-
immunization.jpg)

##### Week of September 2, 2014

**As children head back to school, CDC says most parents are making sure that
their children get vaccinated against potentially serious diseases**. Learn
more.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Photo: Leisha](/about/images/facts/2014/20140825-leisha.jpg)

##### Week of August 25, 2014

**As CDC experts work 24/7 in response to the Ebola Outbreak in Guinea,
Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Nigeria, they support the response in many
different capacities.** In an effort to get the worst Ebola outbreak in
history under control, CDC is not only providing guidance to healthcare
professionals but traveling back to West Africa to focus on stopping the
spread of the disease. Read their stories.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Photo: group of people looking
up](/about/images/facts/2014/20140818-chickenpox.jpg)

##### Week of August 18, 2014

**Chickenpox vaccine is the best way to protect yourself and your child from
chickenpox.** Learn about the CDC's recommendations

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Photo: CDC lab worker](/about/images/facts/2014/21040811-Ebola.jpg)

##### Week of August 11, 2014

**CDC is working to stop the Ebola outbreak**. Get the latest information.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Photo: Centers for Disease Control and Prevenntion
entrance](/about/images/facts/2014/20140728-lab-safety_1.jpg)

##### Week of August 4, 2014

**As West Africa Ebola outbreak worsens, CDC issues Level 3 Travel Warning**.
CDC has today issued a warning to avoid nonessential travel to the West
African nations of Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone. This Level 3 travel
warning is a reflection of the worsening Ebola outbreak in this region. Get
the latest information.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Photo: Centers for Disease Control and Prevenntion
entrance](/about/images/facts/2014/20140728-lab-safety.jpg)

##### Week of July 28, 2014

**CDC has formed an external laboratory safety workgroup of the Advisory
Committee to the Director of CDC**. This group will provide advice and
guidance to the CDC Director and CDC's new Director of Laboratory Safety.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Mobile Apps](/about/images/facts/2014/07.21.14_Moble-App.jpg)

##### Week of July 21, 2014

**Learn more about CDC 's apps**. Mobile apps are an excellent way to deliver
public health information.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Graphic: News tablet](/about/images/facts/2014/20140714-anthrax.jpg)

##### Week of July 14, 2014

**The CDC has released an after-action report on the recent anthrax
incident**. The report highlights steps to improve laboratory quality and
safety.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![The Lancet](/about/images/facts/2014/20140701-Lancet.jpg.jpg)

##### Week of July 7, 2014

**CDC Director Tom Frieden, MD, MPH, and CDC Associate Director for Science
Harold Jaffe, MD, are co-authors of a commentary article capping a special
July 4 issue of The Lancet - The Health of Americans - featuring articles by
CDC scientists.** Find out more on how Americans can get a better return on
their health care investments.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Photo: Plate of fruit and
vegetables](/about/images/facts/2014/20140701-million-hearts.jpg)

##### Week of July 1, 2014

**The Million Hearts initiative announces the launch of a new Healthy Eating
and Lifestyle Resource Center, developed in partnership with CDC and Eating-
Well magazine.** The resource centerexternal icon features lower-sodium,
heart-healthy recipes and family-friendly meal plans, with an emphasis on
managing sodium intake, a major contributor to high blood pressure and heart
disease.

**More external icon**

CDC Fact of the Week

![graphic: HIV Testing](/about/images/facts/2014/20140623-HIV-testing.jpg)

##### Week of June 23, 2014

**National HIV Testing Day is June 27.** CDC recommends that everyone between
the ages of 13 and 64 get tested for HIV at least once as part of routine
health care and that some people with risk factors get tested more often. Find
out more about testing recommendations.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Photo: elderly individula with an
assistant](/about/images/facts/2014/20140616-elder-abuse.jpg)

##### Week of June 16, 2014

**CDC works to prevent violence before it occurs.** World Elder Abuse
Prevention Day recognizes that each year, hundreds of thousands of adults over
the age of 60 are abused, neglected, or financially exploited. Get more
information on elder abuse prevention.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Photo: Palm tree in a
storm](/about/images/facts/2014/20140609-hurricane.jpg)

##### Week of June 9, 2014

**If you live in coastal areas at risk, CDC encourages you to begin preparing
yourself for hurricane season .** The Atlantic hurricane season is June 1
through November 30 each year. Check out the hurricane preparedness tips.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Graphic: Image of a globe](/about/images/facts/2014/20140602-tobacco-
day.jpg)

##### Week of June 2, 2014

Smoking has been the number one cause of preventable death and disease in this
country for decades. CDC just celebrated World No Tobacco Day. Learn more
about this event sponsored by the **World Health Organization**.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![](/about/images/facts/2014/05.27.14_Stroke.jpg)

##### Week of May 27, 2014

**May is National Stroke Awareness Month.** CDC urges you to learn the signs
of a stroke. Learn more here

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Graphic: Recreational Water Illness and Injury \(RWII\) prevention
week](/about/images/facts/2014/20140520-RWIs.jpg)

##### Week of May 19, 2014

**Having fun while you swim this summer means knowing how to prevent
recreational water illnesses (RWIs) and injuries**. The week before Memorial
Day, marks the tenth annual Recreational Water Illness and Injury (RWII)
Prevention Week. Learn how to stay healthy and safe while enjoying the water!

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Graphic: Public Health Grand
Rounds](/about/images/facts/2014/20140515-grand-rounds.jpg)

##### Week of May 15, 2014

**Each year, an estimated 50,000 individuals become infected with the human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in the United States**. Learn more at CDC's
Public Health Grand Rounds Presents: Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) for
Prevention HIV Infection, Tuesday, May 20, 2014, from 1:00 p.m. - 2:00 p.m.,
EDT. A live external webcast will be available.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Middle Eastern Repiratory
Syndrome](/about/images/facts/2014/20140505-MERS.jpg)

##### Week of May 5, 2014

**On May 2, 2014, the first confirmed case of MERS-CoV was reported in a
traveler to the United States.**  
This is the only confirmed case in the United States. CDC is working very
quickly to investigate this first US case of MERS and respond to minimize the
spread of this virus. We expect to learn much more in the coming hours and
days. We will share updated information through the CDC MERS website.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Photo: Group of children](/about/images/facts/2014/20140428-child-abuse.jpg)

##### Week of April 28, 2014

**CDC 's Division of Violence Prevention conducts research and programs to
better understand the problem of child maltreatment and to prevent it before
it begins.**  
April is National Child Abuse Prevention Month.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Budget](/about/images/facts/2014/04.21.14_BudgetForHealth.jpg)

##### Week of April 21, 2014

**On a Budget? CDC suggests thesefree or low-cost ways to be healthy and save
money at the same time.**

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Photo: Young girl](/about/images/facts/2014/04.14.14_Minority-Health.jpg)

##### Week of April 14, 2014

**April is Minority Health Month and CDC is highlighting prevention strategies
and actions leading to Health Equity.** This year's theme, Prevention is
Power: Taking Action for Health Equity emphasizes the critical role of
prevention in reducing health disparities. Learn more about CDC Actions in
support of the HHS Action Plan to Reduce Racial & Ethnic Health
Disparitiesexternal icon.

**More external icon**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Photo: Child](/about/images/facts/2014/03.31.14_Autism.jpg)

##### Week of March 31, 2014

**1 in 68 children were identified with autism spectrum disorder. Readmore
about CDC's new data on autism spectrum disorder and learn what you can do to
help.**

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Photo: Group of people](/about/images/facts/2014/20140324_TB.jpg)

##### Week of March 24, 2014

**World TB Day, March 24, brings renewed awareness to this life-threatening
disease.** CDC's TB Personal Stories project features real people and their
experiences of being diagnosed and treated for latent TB infection or TB
disease. Learn more.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Photo: Doctor viewing
x-ray](/about/images/facts/2014/20140317-Multidrug.jpg)

##### Week of March 17, 2014

**Explore the role of CDC, WHO and other partners in combating tuberculosis.**
Watch CDC's Public Health Grand Rounds, "Multidrug-resistant Tuberculosis: New
Tools to Tackle New Challenges from an Old Foe," Tuesday, March 18, 2014, from
1-2 p.m., EDT. Watch the live broadcast at either of the following links:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Broadband Connectionexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Slower Connectionexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Flash option for Apple Usersexternal icon

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Photo: A doctor at a
computer](/about/images/facts/2014/20140310-antibiotics.jpg)

##### Week of March 10, 2014

**To protect hospital patients and preserve the power of antibiotics, CDC
strongly recommends hospitals to adopt a stewardship program that can stop
deadly infections.**

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Photo: Young man in a wheel
chair](/about/images/facts/2014/20140303-muscular-dystrophy.jpg)

##### Week of March 3, 2014

**CDC 's Muscular Dystrophy Surveillance Tracking and Research Network is the
only population-based muscular dystrophy tracking program in the United
States.** This program addresses gaps in public health research of muscular
dystrophy.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Photo: Two hands holding a heart-shaped
balloon.](/about/images/facts/2014/20140224-Heart-Month.jpg)

##### Week of February 24, 2014

**February is American Heart Month.** CDC helps you learn about your risks for
heart disease and stroke and stay "heart healthy" for yourself and your loved
ones. On the words learn about your risks.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Photo: Young lady looking troubled amongst a
crowd](/about/images/facts/2014/20140217-youth-violence.jpg)

##### Week of February 17, 2014

**Watch CDC 's Public Health Grand Rounds, "Preventing Youth Violence" which
will be held on February 18, at 1:00 p.m. (EST). **

**For more,visit.** Watch the live broadcast at either of the following links:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Broadband Connectionexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Slower Connectionexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Flash option for Apple Usersexternal icon

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Graphic: Carseat buckled into a
car](/about/images/facts/2014/20140210-carseat.jpg)

##### Week of February 10, 2014

**CDC wants you to buckle up**. Motor vehicle crashes are a leading cause of
death for children in the US. Buckling up is the best way to save lives and
reduce injuries. Learn more.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![](/about/images/facts/2014/02.03.14_Smoking.jpg)

##### Week of February 3, 2014

**CDC wants you to know the risks of smoking**. Dramatic new TV ads that show
the harms of smoking are airing across the country beginning February 3, with
CDC's 2014 _Tips From Former Smokers_ _(Tips)_ campaign. If you smoke, the
real people who tell their stories can inspire you to quit for good. More than
100,000 people are now smoke-free, thanks to earlier _Tips_ ads. Learn more.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![](/about/images/facts/2014/20140129_Healthy-in-winter.jpg)

##### Week of January 27, 2014

CDC wants you to stay safe and healthy in winter. Check for helpful tips here.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![](/about/images/facts/2014/20140121_Birth-Defects.jpg)

##### Week of January 21, 2014

**CDC helps fight birth defects.**

January is National Birth Defects Prevention Month. Did you know that every 4
½ minutes, a baby is born with a birth defect in the United States? Help
increase awareness in your community. Learn more.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Photo: Engine for a pressure washer.](/about/images/facts/2014/20140113-CO-
poisoning.jpg)

##### Week of January 13, 2014

**CDC cautions you to prevent carbon monoxide poisoning.**

When power outages occur after severe weather (such as winter storms), using
alternative sources of power can cause carbon monoxide (CO) to build up in a
home and poison the people and animals inside. CO poisoning is entirely
preventable. You can protect yourself and your family by acting wisely in case
of a power outage and learning the symptoms of CO poisoning. For more
information, please visit.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Happy new Year](/about/images/facts/2014/20140106-new-year.jpg)

##### Week of January 6, 2014

**CDC Encourages You to Make 2014 a "Healthy You Year."**

Find ways to boost your health, fitness, and well-being, and be an inspiration
to others! Need inspiration to get started? Meet three people who changed
their health habits--and their lives. They lost weight, became active, gained
energy, and grew in self-confidence. Here are their stories and tips for
making healthy living easier. They say if they can do it, you can too!

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![CDC Slve the Outbreak graphic](/about/images/facts/2013/20131209-disease-
detectives.jpg)

Week of December 30, 2013

**CDC has released an update to** **Solve the Outbreak** external icon **, the
popular, free iPad app that puts you in the shoes of a member of the Epidemic
Intelligence Service.**  
The app now has 12 outbreaks, giving you the opportunity to climb the ranks
and achieve your Disease Detective badge. The immensely popular app, with more
than 31,000 downloads, has fans clamoring for more. So if you've been stuck as
a Senior Specialist, now's your chance to work your way through the new
outbreaks to earn more badges and new achievements.

**More external icon**

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![](/about/images/facts/2013/12.23.13_self-care.jpg)

Week of December 23, 2013

#####  **Follow 12 CDC recommended tips for self-care this season.** Keep
yourself and your loved ones safe and healthy--and ready to enjoy the
holidays. See 12 health tips to light up your holidays.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

##### Week of December 16, 2013

#####  **Watch CDC 's Public Health Grand Rounds, "Community Water
Fluoridation: A Vital 21st Century Public Health Intervention."** It will be
held on December 17, at 1:00 p.m. (EST).

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![CDC Slve the Outbreak graphic](/about/images/facts/2013/20131209-disease-
detectives.jpg)

Week of December 9, 2013

**You can be a disease detective.**  
CDC has released an update to Solve the Outbreakexternal icon, the popular,
free iPad app that puts you in the shoes of a member of the Epidemic
Intelligence Service. The app now has 12 outbreaks, giving you the opportunity
to climb the ranks and achieve your Disease Detective badge.

**More external icon**

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![International Day of Persons with
Disabilities](/about/images/facts/2013/12022013-disabilities.jpg)

Week of December 2, 2013

**CDC operates on the principle that people with disabilities are best served
by Public Health when they are included in mainstream public health
activities.**  
Around the world, people with disabilities face physical, social, economic and
attitudinal barriers that exclude them from participating fully and
effectively as equal members of society. December 3rd is International Day of
Persons with Disabilities. This year's theme is "break barriers, open doors:
for an inclusive society for all."

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![CDC and PEPFAR celebrate a decade of success in fighting global
HIV/AIDS](/about/images/facts/2013/11252013-worldaids.jpg)

Week of November 25, 2013

**CDC and PEPFAR celebrate a decade of success in fighting global HIV/AIDS.**  
As a science-based public health and disease prevention agency, CDC provides
support to more than 70 countries to strengthen their national HIV/AIDS
programs and build sustainable public health systems through the U.S.
President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Reliefexternal icon (PEPFAR).

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![Measles continues to be brought into the U.S., CDC recommends that children
get two doses](/about/images/facts/2013/11182013-measles.jpg)

Week of November 11, 2013

**Measles continues to be brought into the U.S.**  
So far in 2013, more than 100 people in the United States have been reported.
CDC recommends that children get two doses--the first dose at 12 through 15
months of age and the second dose before entering school at 4 through 6 years
of age.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![Health is a Human Right exhibition in the David J. Sencer CDC
museum.](/about/images/facts/2013/11112013-healthhumanright.jpg)

Week of November 11, 2013

**A compelling new exhibition in the David J. Sencer CDC Museum, the _Health
Is a Human Right_ exhibit looks back through history at how minority groups
have experienced health problems differently.**  
The World Health Organization defines social determinants of health as the
circumstances in which people are born, grow up, live, work and age, and
access to health care. These circumstances are in turn shaped by a wider set
of forces: economics, social policies, and political will.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

#####

![Photo of family playing outside with
baby.](/about/images/facts/2013/11042013-phtracking.jpg)

Week of November 4, 2013

**CDC's Environmental Public Health Tracking Network is a dynamic surveillance
system that provides information and data about environmental hazards and the
health problems that may be related to them.**  
Data in the National Tracking Network comes from 24 funded state and local
health departments, CDC programs, and other government agencies.

**More**

CDC Fact of the Week

![Flu Fact: people with the flu can spread it to others up to six feet
away](/about/images/facts/2013/20131029-flu.jpg)

##### Week of October 28, 2013

**Vaccine safety is closely monitored by CDC and the FDA.**  
Everyone 6 months and older should get an annual flu vaccine. It takes about
two weeks after vaccination for your body to develop an immune response.

More





#####

![Photo: Bag of groceries](/about/images/facts/2013/20131021-foodcore.jpg)

Week of October 21, 2013

**FoodCORE is a program supported by CDC that helps states detect and respond
to multistate foodborne disease outbreaks.**  
Each year, foodborne diseases cause illness in 1 in 6 Americans (or about 48
million people), resulting in about 128,000 hospitalizations and 3,000 deaths
_FoodCORE centers_ work together to develop new and better methods to detect,
investigate, respond to, and control multistate outbreaks of foodborne
diseases.

#####

![Photo: Bottles of wine and liquor](/about/images/facts/2013/20130916-binge-
drinking.jpg)

Week of September 16, 2013

**CDC recently reported that 1 in 8 women and 1 in 5 high school girls binge
drink, increasing their risk of breast cancer, heart disease, sexually
transmitted infections, and unintended pregnancy.**

#####

![Photo Adult woman tickling a young
child](/about/images/facts/2013/20130910-SickleCell.jpg)

Week of September 9, 2013

**CDC raises awareness of Sickle Cell Disease across the country, including
sharing new resources, research, and treatment advances to improve the lives
of people with SCD.**

#####

![Photo: Dog sitting on a lawn](/about/images/facts/2013/20130904-petfood.jpg)

Week of September 3, 2013

**CDC recommends against feeding raw food to dogs and cats because of the risk
of illness to the pet as well as to people living in the household.** Pet food
can make pets and people sick.  


#####

![Photo: Firefighter](/about/images/facts/2013/20130826-wildfires.jpg)

Week of August 26, 2013

**As wildfires burn in the western US, CDC has tips to help you protect
yourself from wildfire smoke.**  


#####

![Photo: Young girl playing the
violin](/about/images/facts/2013/20130819-diabetes.jpg)

Week of August 19, 2013

**CDC helps you take charge of your diabetes.**

#####

![CDC Health Information for International Travel -
2014](/about/images/facts/2013/20130812-Yellow-Book.jpg)

Week of August 12, 2013

**CDC helps keep you safe when you travel**  
CDC's __Yellow Book__ helps business travelers and their doctors prepare for
international trips by providing key health information and recommendations
for staying safe and healthy while abroad. The Yellow Book is published every
two years.

#####

![Photo: Mosquito](/about/images/facts/2013/20130806-Mosquito.jpg)

Week of August 6, 2013

**CDC works to protect yourself from diseases caused by mosquitoes**  
CDC recommends a variety of effective _repellents_.

![CDC logo](/about/images/facts/2013/20130730-HepatitisA.jpg)

##### Week of July 30, 2013

**CDC investigates foodborne illnesses**  
CDC is collaborating with public health officials in several states and the US
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate _outbreak of
hepatitis A virus infections_ linked to pomegranate seeds from Turkey. While
foodborne hepatitis A outbreaks are not common in the United States, our
global food chain makes outbreaks possible.

#####

![Photo: Planet earth](/about/images/facts/2013/20130722-climate.jpg)

Week of July 22, 2013

**Learn what CDC is doing to prevent and adapt to the possible health effects
of climate change.**

#####

![Photo: Two older adults](/about/images/facts/2013/20130715-older-adults.jpg)

Week of July 15, 2013

**CDC has created a preparedness guide and web portal to help states,
communities and partners plan for and protect vulnerable and older adults in
all hazardous emergencies.**  
Older adults are especially vulnerable as they are more likely to have
multiple chronic conditions, cognitive and physical disabilities.

#####

![Drug Facts](/about/images/facts/2013/20130708-Drug-Facts.jpg)

Week of July 8, 2013

**A new CDC Vital Signs shows women are dying from prescription painkiller
overdoses at rates never seen before.**  
 _Learn_ how you can help stop this growing epidemic.

#####

![Photo: Young boy eating at a picnic](/about/images/facts/2013/20130702-Food-
Safety.jpg)

Week of July 2, 2013

**CDC says food safety is a winnable battle**  
If you are planning or participating in a family reunion over the Fourth of
July, follow these tips to make sure your get-together is safe and healthy.

More

#####

![CDC logo](/about/images/facts/2013/20130625-cdc.jpg)

Week of June 24, 2013

**CDC provides infection prevention recommendations to fight HAIs.**  
CDC supports state-based programs to help prevent the 1.7 million healthcare-
associated infections in hospitals that cause 99,000 deaths annually and cost
between $28-33 billion each year.

More

#####

![Graphic: Take Charge of your
Diabetes](/about/images/facts/2013/20130617-diabetes.jpg)

Week of June 17, 2013

**CDC Fights Diabetes.**  
Workers with diabetes average two or more work days absent per year than
workers without diabetes. Absenteeism costs are reduced by approximately $2.73
for every dollar spent on workplace wellness programs.

More

#####

![Photo: Accident scene](/about/images/facts/2013/20130607-vehicle-
accidents.jpg)

Week of June 10, 2013

**CDC works to reduce motor vehicle-related incidents, consistently the
leading cause of work-related fatalities in the United States.**  
CDC's National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) Center for
Motor Vehicle Safety conducts research on truck design, driver characteristics
and behaviors, and in-vehicle technology, contributing to prevention of large-
truck crashes, which affect public safety and cost the US economy $48 billion
in 2009.

More

#####

![Outbreak Response Team](/about/images/facts/2013/2013604-outbreaks.jpg)

Week of June 4, 2013

**CDC investigate outbreaks of foodborne, waterborne, and other enteric
illnesses in the US.**  
CDC's Outbreak Response Team collaborates with a national network of
epidemiologists and other public health officials. In 2012, CDC monitored
between 16 and 57 potential food poisoning clusters each week and investigated
more than 200 multistate clusters. These investigations led to the recalls of
300 products.

More

#####

![Two CDC lab workers](/about/images/facts/2013/20130527-Bioterrorist.jpg)

Week of May 27, 2013

**CDC plays a pivotal role in public health preparedness for catastrophic
events**  
Through CDC's Cities Readiness Initiative, which focuses on preparedness in
the nation's densely populated metropolitan areas, state and large
metropolitan public health departments have developed plans to rapidly respond
to a large-scale bioterrorist event.

More

Module

#####

![Photo: Worker in a hazard
suit](/about/images/facts/2013/20130520-anthrax.jpg)

Week of May 20, 2013

**CDC played a pivotal role identifying cases of anthrax**  
In 2001, CDC played a pivotal role identifying cases of anthrax, tracking
exposures, and developing a response to treat the 32,000 individuals who were,
or may have been, exposed. The anthrax bioterrorism attack of 2001 resulted in
5 deaths, 22 illnesses and economic costs exceeding $1 billion. The projected
economic costs of a city-wide release of a bioterrorist agent like anthrax
would reach beyond $1.8 trillion, resulting in illnesses and deaths,
antibiotic treatment, decontamination and work disruption.

More

#####

![Photo: Montage of faces](/about/images/facts/2013/20130513-tobacco-
control.jpg)

Week of May 13, 2013

**CDC leads the National Tobacco Control Program**  
CDC leads the National Tobacco Control Program facilitating national efforts
to reduce tobacco use, which causes more than 400,000 deaths per year, and
costs $193 billion annually (nearly $96 billion in direct medical costs and an
additional $97 billion in lost productivity).

More

#####

![Photos; Workplace photo montage](/about/images/facts/2013/20130506-safety-
research.jpg)

Week of May 6, 2013

**CDC leads workplace safety research**  
CDC leads workplace safety research, health hazard evaluations, and programs
including the Total Worker Health Program, to help reduce occupational
injuries and illnesses, which cost employers approximately $74 billion in
workers' compensation insurance in 2009.

More

#####

![Photo: First responders getting
vaccinated](/about/images/facts/2013/20130429-funding.jpg)

Week of April 29, 2013

**CDC supports state and local preparedness activities:**  
CDC supports state and local preparedness activities through funding and
technical assistance. For example, CDC's Public Health Emergency Preparedness
cooperative agreement has provided over $9 billion in funding since 2002 to
state, local and territorial public health departments to build and strengthen
their ability to respond effectively to public health emergencies. In response
to the 2009 influenza pandemic, CDC administered $1.4 billon to upgrade state
and local preparedness and response capacity.

More

#####

![Mosquito](/about/images/facts/2013/20130422-malaria.jpg)

Week of April 22, 2013

**World Malaria Day April 25:**  
As we mark World Malaria Day April 25, did you know that the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention has its roots in malaria? It was founded July
1, 1946 as the successor to the World War II Malaria Control in War Areas
program. CDC is specifically directed by Congress to provide leadership in the
areas of monitoring, evaluation, surveillance, and operational research for
malaria.

More

#####

![Photo: two girls dressed  in
Hijab](/about/images/facts/2013/20130415-global-disease.jpg)

Week of April 15, 2013

**CDC is available 24-7, Saving Lives, Protecting People**  
CDC helps other countries rapidly find, identify, and quickly control new
diseases and bioterrorist threats. For more information visit CDC's Global
Disease Detection Program.

More

#####

![Photo: Microsope image of ebola](/about/images/facts/2013/20130408-ebola-
virus.jpg)

Week of April 8, 2013

**CDC studies highly infectious viruses, including those which cause
hemorrhagic manifestations in humans.**  
In 1976 CDC investigated two outbreaks of an unknown deadly hemorrhagic fever,
later called Ebola. To see a listing of Ebola outbreaks from 1976 to the
present.

More

#####

![Logo: Natinal Public Health week](/about/images/facts/2013/20130401-public-
health.jpg)

Week of April 1, 2013

**It 's National Public Health Week.**  
CDC is the nation's health protection agency, working 24/7 to protect America
from health and safety threats, both foreign and domestic. CDC increases the
health security of our nation.

external iconMore

#####

![Photo: Family of three embracing each
other](/about/images/facts/2013/20130325-health-equity.jpg)

Week of March 25, 2013

**The CDC 's Vision for the 21st Century is "Health Protection…Health
Equity".**  
What is CDC doing to advance this mission?

More

#####

![Photo: David Senser Museum](/about/images/facts/2013/20130318-sencer-
museum.jpg)

Week of March 18, 2013

**The David J. Sencer CDC Museum is a Smithsonian Affiliate.**  
The CDC museum was established in 1996 and renamed the David J. Sencer CDC
Museum in 2011 to honor the longest-serving CDC Director.

More

#####

![Photo: Vaccination](/about/images/facts/2013/20130311-vaccine-safety.jpg)

Week of March 11, 2013

**CDC works to ensure that all vaccines are safe whether you receive a shot in
the US or anywhere in the world.**  
Monitoring health problems after vaccination is essential to ensure the US
continues to have the safest, most effective vaccine supply in history.

More

#####

![Photo: Health worker with a breathing  mask
on](/about/images/facts/2013/20130304-sars.jpg)

Week of March 4, 2013

**CDC and its partners continue to monitor SARS globally.**  
Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) was first reported in Asia in 2003
and CDC immediately began working to identify, track, and treat cases.

More

#####

![Graphic: Crisis and Emergency Risk Communication
logo](/about/images/facts/2013/20130225-cerc.jpg)

Week of February 25, 2013

**CDC helps partners and stakeholders in preparing for, responding to and
recovering from the threat of bioterrorism, emergent diseases, and other
hazards.**  
CDC created the Crisis and Emergency Risk Communication (CERC) training
program in 2002. CERC training has been conducted in all 10 HHS Regions and 15
countries.

More

#####

![Graphic: Vital Signs logo](/about/images/facts/2013/20130218-vital-
signs.jpg)

Week of February 18, 2013

**CDC tracks and reports state-by-state rates of colorectal cancer.**  
A CDC report says that rates of new cases and deaths of colorectal cancer are
decreasing and more adults are being screened.

More

#####

![Photo: Two lab workers](/about/images/facts/2013/20130211-select-agent.jpg)

Week of February 11, 2013

**CDC regulates the possession, use, and transfer of biological agents and
toxins that could pose a severe threat to public health and safety via the
Select Agent Program.**  
This program has greatly enhanced the nation's oversight of the safety and
security of select agents and is overseen by the Division of Select Agents and
Toxins (DSAT), located in CDC's Office of Public Health Preparedness and
Response (OPHPR).

More

#####

![Photo: Man working with toxic
smoke](/about/images/facts/2013/20130204-niosh.jpg)

Week of February 4, 2013

**CDC/NIOSH provides national and world leadership to prevent workplace
illnesses and injuries.**  
CDC/National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health works to identify
and track the association between occupational exposures and cancers.

More

#####

![Photo: Group of young
adults](/about/images/facts/2013/20130128-fellowships.jpg)

Week of January 28, 2013

**CDC looks for motivated students, graduates, and health professionals for a
variety of exciting public health training programs.**  
CDC offers public health training fellowships for everyone from high school
students to trained professionals.

More

#####

![Photo: Salad greens](/about/images/facts/2013/20130121-ecoli.jpg)

Week of January 21, 2013

**CDC helps you protect yourself from _E. coli_ infections.**  
Food regulators use CDC data to improve food handling and production standards
for foods that can be contaminated by E. coli 0157. Outbreaks of E. coli
infections under investigation by CDC.

More

#####

![Photo: Young adult with an
inhaler](/about/images/facts/2013/20130114-asthma.jpg)

Week of January 14, 2013

**CDC 's National Asthma Control Program is a driving force in asthma
control.**  
Nearly 25 million people in the U.S. have asthma. Follow this link for more
information about CDC's asthma control programs.

More

#####

![Photo: Two young girls with
puppies](/about/images/facts/2013/20130107-healthypets.jpg)

Week of January 7, 2013

**CDC provides information about the health concerns of owning and caring for
animals.**  
On the "Healthy Pets Healthy People" website you can browse by animal or by
disease.

More

#####

![Graphic: Cover for the National Intimate Partner and Sexual Violence
Survey](/about/images/facts/2012/20121231-nisvs.jpg)

Week of December 31, 2012

**Sexual violence, stalking, and intimate partner violence are important and
widespread public health problems in the United States**  
CDC's National Intimate Partner and Sexual Violence Survey collects
information on partner and sexual violence and stalking. Review the survey.

More

#####

![Photo: Woman wih handcuffs
on](/about/images/facts/2012/20121224-prisons.jpg)

Week of December 24, 2012

**CDC fights the spread of infectious disease in crowded populations, for
example in prisons**  
CDC provides recommendations and guidance for detecting, treating, and
tracking infectious diseases in prisons.

More

#####

![Photo: Legionnaires
virus](/about/images/facts/2012/20121217-legionnaires.jpg)

Week of December 17, 2012

**CDC 's disease detectives protect America when new diseases strike**  
CDC's discovery of the causes of Legionnaires' Disease (1968) and Toxic-Shock
Syndrome (1980), helped protect people and saves lives from these health
threats.

More

#####

![Photo: Lab worker](/about/images/facts/2012/20121210-world-work.jpg)

Week of December 10, 2012

**CDC 's work around the world keeps America safe from health threats **  
For more than 60 years CDC's scientific expertise has been called upon to help
save lives and limit the spread of disease around the world. CDC has more than
304 workers in 50-plus countries.

More

#####

![Photo: Four family memebers](/about/images/facts/2012/20121203-blood-
safety.jpg)

Week of December 3, 2012

**CDC tracks blood safety for patients with rare disorders**  
A new CDC program monitors blood safety for people with Thalassemia, a group
of genetic blood disorders; the most severe, Cooley's Anemia. CDC is tracking
blood safety for thalassemia patients, and establishing a network of
specialized health-care centers to manage the disease, treat it, and prevent
patient complications.

More

#####

![Photo: Sick child](/about/images/facts/2012/20121126-cold-medicine.jpg)

Week of November 26, 2012

**CDC helps protect children from overdoses of cold/cough medicines**  
CDC's discovered that children's cold/cough medicines cause thousands of
overdoses a year. These findings led drug companies to voluntarily change the
labels on these products.

More

#####

![Graphic: CDC 24/7 logo](/about/images/facts/2012/20121119-cdc-247.jpg)

Week of November 19, 2012

**CDC protects Americans from infections during dental visits**  
In 1990, CDC reported the possible transmission of HIV from a dentist to a
patient in Florida during an invasive procedure. This led to CDC guidelines
that now help keep people safe with protection between dental staff and
patients, and proper cleaning of instruments and equipment. Read the original
report.

More

#####

![Photo: Elderly couple, smiling](/about/images/facts/2012/20121112-falls.jpg)

Week of November 12, 2012

**CDC works to prevent falls among older adults**  
Each year, one in three adults age 65 and older falls. Falls can cause
moderate to severe injuries, such as hip fractures and head injuries, and can
increase the risk of early death. CDC is helping protect older adults by
supporting proven programs and providing information to both individuals and
health care providers.

More

#####

![Graphic: United States map with weapon stockpile
information](/about/images/facts/2012/20121105-us-stockpile.jpg)

Week of November 5, 2012

**CDC protects communities and workers from stockpiled weapon threats**  
CDC oversees the Army's destruction of the nation's stockpiled chemical
weapons to make sure these are destroyed in a way that protects workers and
keeps communities safe.

More

#####

![Graphic: Take Charge; Take the
Test](/about/images/facts/2012/20121029-prenatal-hiv.jpg)

Week of October 29, 2012

**CDC is helping keep newborns safe from HIV infection**  
In 1998, CDC research found that treating HIV-infected pregnant women with a
short course of AZT could reduce the risk of prenatal HIV transmission by over
50 percent. This saves countless lives in American and around the world.

More

#####

![Photo: Quarantine station](/about/images/facts/2012/20121022-quarantine.jpg)

Week of October 22, 2012

**CDC protects America from outbreaks of infectious diseases**  
There are 20 US Quarantine Stations, staffed with CDC quarantine public health
officers. They help prevent the introduction of infectious diseases into the
US by responding to illnesses in travelers arriving in the United States,
screening cargo and animals that may pose a risk to human health, and working
closely with partners at entry points to the United States.

More

#####

![Graphic: National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey \(NHANES\)
logo](/about/images/facts/2012/20121015-nhanes.jpg)

Week of October 15, 2012

**CDC takes the health pulse of the nation**  
CDC's has produced the health statistics reporting for America from its
National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) since the early
1960s. The surveys determine the health and nutritional status of adults and
children in the U.S. and are the basis for national measurement standards such
as height, weight, and blood pressure. Review the latest survey results.

More

#####

![Photo: Cigarettes](/about/images/facts/2012/20121008-tobacco.jpg)

Week of October 8, 2012

**CDC works to protect Americans from the health threats of tobacco use**  
Did you know that 443,000 Americans die of smoking or exposure to secondhand
smoke each year? For every smoking-related death, another 20 people suffer
with a smoking-related disease. CDC offers tools and resources on quitting
smoking.

More

#####

![Graphic: Doctor and nurse icons](/about/images/facts/2012/20121001-hai.jpg)

Week of October 1, 2012

**CDC is helping to drive down health-care related infections**  
People getting medical care can catch serious infections called health care-
associated infections. CDC helps monitor and prevent these infections which
are an important threat to patient safety and recovery. Its recommendations
for preventing many hospital-related infections help keep patients safe around
the use of catheters and surgical sites.

More

#####

![Graphic: World Trade Center \(WTC\) Health Program
logo](/about/images/facts/2012/20120924-wtc-health.jpg)

Week of September 24, 2012

**CDC supports the health of responders and others affected by the 9/11
attacks.**  
CDC administers the government's program to provide health monitoring and
treatment for responders and others harmed by the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks, stimulates new research on health effects associated with the
attacks, and anticipates the long-term health needs of those we serve.

More

#####

![Graphic: Breast and cervical cancer screening campaign
logo](/about/images/facts/2012/20120917-cancer-screening.jpg)

Week of September 17, 2012

CDC helps to provide access to breast and cervical cancer screening services
to underserved women in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, 5 U.S.
territories, and 12 tribes.

More

#####

![Photo: Young boy staring](/about/images/facts/2012/20120910-autism.jpg)

Week of September 10, 2012

CDC tracks Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASDs) and estimates that 1 in 110 U.S.
children, on average, have an ASD.

More

#####

![Photo:A  Couple running](/about/images/facts/2012/20120903-diabetes.jpg)

Week of September 3, 2012

CDC invites organizations interested in offering a lifestyle change program to
prevent type-2 diabetes to become a part of the Diabetes Prevention
Recognition Program.

More

#####

![Photo: CDC lab worker](/about/images/facts/2012/20120827-phil.jpg)

Week of August 27, 2012

CDC's online Public Health Image Library (PHIL) includes photos,
illustrations, and multimedia files free for downloading.

More

#####

![Photo CDC lab worker](/about/images/facts/2012/20120820-disease-
detection.jpg)

Week of August 20, 2012

CDC helps other countries rapidly find, identify, and quickly control new
diseases and bioterrorist threats.

More

#####

![Photo: CDC Arctic Investigations Program
building](/about/images/facts/2012/20120813-arctic.jpg)

Week of August 13, 2012

CDC works with scientists in Russia, Scandinavian countries, and other Arctic
Circle regions to focus on disease concerns at the top of the globe.

More

#####

![Photo: Airplane flying over palm
trees](/about/images/facts/2012/20120806-travel.jpg)

Week of August 6, 2012

CDC lets people know if they have been exposed to certain communicable
diseases while traveling on an airplane.

More

#####

![Graphic: Dollar sign with health monitor graphics superimposed over
it](/about/images/facts/2012/20120730-economics.jpg)

Week of July 30, 2012

CDC trains public health economists on how to help determine which public
health programs and decisions are good investments.

More

#####

![Photo: Bombing device with a
timer](/about/images/facts/2012/20120716-bombing.jpg)

Week of July 16, 2012

CDC developed guidelines and system-wide solutions to address surge needs of
injured patients after a bombing or mass casualty events.

More

#####

![Photo: CDC health worker administering polio
vaccine](/about/images/facts/2012/20120709-polio.jpg)

Week of July 9, 2012

In 1950 CDC conducted its first investigation of a polio outbreak in Paulding
County, Ohio. View more information on the history of polio eradication.

More

#####

![Photo: Truck with vaccine
cargo](/about/images/facts/2012/20120702-stockpile.jpg)

Week of July 2, 2012

CDC stockpiles and provides antibiotics, vaccines, chemical antidotes and
other supplies, which can be released in just a few hours, from its Strategic
National Stockpile (SNS).

More

#####

![Photo: Cholera bacteria](/about/images/facts/2012/20120625-eis.jpg)

Week of June 25, 2012

In 1958 the first CDC Disease Detectives went overseas to Southeast Asia to
investigate an epidemic of cholera and smallpox.

More

#####

![Photo: Syringe](/about/images/facts/2012/20120618-influenza-vaccine.jpg)

Week of June 18, 2012

CDC carefully watches what influenza viruses are circulating and each year
helps select the viruses that will be used to make the next season's vaccines.

More

#####

![Graphic: Computer model of a
virus](/about/images/facts/2012/20120611-mmwr.jpg)

Week of June 11, 2012

Each week, CDC tracks and shares information about more than 60 different
diseases with reports we get from the states. Access the latest annual summary
of these diseases.

More

#####

![Photo: Periodic table of elements symbol for Lead,
Pb](/about/images/facts/2012/20120604-lead-levels.jpg)

Week of June 4, 2012

In the United States, approximately 95% of elevated blood lead levels in
adults are work related.

More

#####

![Photo: Cruise ship](/about/images/facts/2012/20120528-cruise-ships.jpg)

Week of May 28, 2012

CDC inspects cruise ships and posts the inspection scores online. Check the
latest ratings.

More

#####

![Photo: Salmonella](/about/images/facts/2012/20120521-salmonella.jpg)

Week of May 21, 2012

CDC works to find out what germs may be hiding in foods and making us sick.

More

#####

![Photo: Woman receiving a vaccination](/about/images/facts/2012/20120514-hiv-
pregnant.jpg)

Week of May 14, 2012

CDC studies demonstrated that treating HIV-infected pregnant women with a
short course of AZT could reduce the risk of prenatal HIV transmission by over
50%.

More

#####

![Photo: Two men working with toxic
smoke](/about/images/facts/2012/20120507-cancers.jpg)

Week of May 7, 2012

CDC/National Institute for Occupational Safety & Health works to identify and
track the association between occupational exposures and cancers.

More

#####

![Photo: Lab worker](/about/images/facts/2012/20120430-screening.jpg)

Week of April 30, 2012

CDC provides information about developmental milestones and screening for all
children.

More

![dumbbells, measuring tape and an orange](/about/images/facts/2018/newyear-
fow-72px.jpg)

##### Week of December 31, 2018

Five Minutes or Less for Health: Make Health Your Resolution. This New Year,
find ways to boost your health, fitness, and well-being, and be an inspiration
to others!

More



![12 ways to health](/about/images/facts/2018/12-ways-72px.jpg)

##### Week of December 24, 2018

Learn how to stay safe and healthy with this festive song, sung to the tune of
The Twelve Days of Christmas!

More



![hand on alarm clock](/about/images/facts/2018/sleep-health-fow-72px.jpg)

##### Week of December 14, 2018

Most adults need at least 7 hours of sleep each night. However, more than one
in three American adults say they don't get the recommended amount of sleep.
Not getting enough sleep over time can lead to serious health problems--and
make certain health problems worse. Find out what you can do to get better
sleep.

More



![woman analyzing vegetables in box](/about/images/facts/2018/food-delivery-
safety-fow-72px.jpg)

##### Week of December 07, 2018

Subscription meal kits, mail-order food, and home-delivered groceries offer
convenience. Make sure food safety is part of the package, too. Follow these
tips to stay safe and healthy while enjoying meals prepared at home from these
services.

More



![Baby in carseat](/about/images/facts/2018/safe-driving-fow-72px.jpg)

##### Week of November 30, 2018

In the United States, motor vehicle crashes are a leading cause of death for
people aged 1‒54, and about 40,000 people were killed in crashes in 2017.
However, many of these deaths can be prevented. Buckle up, drive sober, and
stay safe on the roads this holiday season.

More



![Puppy with emergency kit](/about/petemergency1.jpg)

##### Week of November 26, 2018

Pets are family. Do you have a plan for your pet in an emergency? Including
pets in emergency plans helps your family's ability to respond to an
emergency. Be prepared: make a plan and prepare a disaster kit for your pet.

More



![Woman at an office party looking at her
phone](/about/images/facts/2018/1119-officeholidays.jpg)

##### Week of November 19, 2018

The holiday season is kicking off, and with it comes a marathon of office
parties, potlucks, and gift exchanges. Read these tips from CDC for bringing
healthy holidays to your workplace, including ways to reduce and manage
stress.

More



![Antibiotic Awareness Week logo](/about/images/facts/2018/antibiotics-
aware-72px.jpg)

##### Week of November 12, 2018

U.S. Antibiotic Awareness Week (USAAW) is an annual observance that raises
awareness of the threat of antibiotic resistance and the importance of
antibiotic use. Get involved! Join CDC and partners official USAAW events or
host your own.

More



![Woman taking a walk](/about/images/facts/2018/1105-bloodclots.jpg)

##### Week of November 5, 2018

Venous thromboembolism (VTE), also known as blood clots is a serious, but
preventable medical condition. CDC and the National Blood Clot Alliance's
campaign, _Stop the Clot, Spread the Word_ builds public health awareness
about VTE to prevent and reduce the occurrence of life-threatening blood
clots. Learn more.

More



![scary mask and custom contact lenses](/about/images/facts/2018/halloween-
safe-eyes-72px.jpg)

##### Week of October 29, 2018

Don't let an eye infection be the scariest part of your Halloween. Using
decorative lenses without a valid prescription can cause serious harm to your
eyes--haunting you long after October 31st.

More



![Returning to your flooded home](/about/images/facts/2018/1022-flooded-
home.jpg)

##### Week of October 22, 2018

When returning to a home that's been flooded after natural disasters such as
hurricanes, tornadoes, and floods, be aware that your house may be
contaminated with mold or sewage, which can cause health risks for your
family. Read more on staying safe following a flood.

More



![National Latinx AIDS Awareness Day](/about/images/facts/2018/Latinos-HIV-
AIDS-74px.jpg)

##### Week of October 15, 2018

Hispanics/Latinos represent nearly 18% of the total population of the United
States, but accounted for 26% of the 40,324 new HIV diagnoses in 2016 in the
United States and 6 dependent areas. Let's Stop HIV Together. Find out how you
can do your part to promote HIV prevention and treatment and help fight
stigma.

More



![Children's Mental Health](/about/images/facts/2018/1005-childrens-mental-
health.jpg)

##### Week of October 8, 2018

Mental disorders among children are described as serious changes in the way
children typically learn, behave, or handle their emotions, which cause
distress and problems getting through the day. Talk to your child's healthcare
professional if you have concerns about the way they behave at home, in
school, or with friends.

More



![Fungal Disease Awareness Week Oct. 1-5,
2018](/about/images/facts/2018/0928-fungal-disease-awarenes.jpg)

##### Week of October 1, 2018

Did you know some fungal infections can look like other illnesses? A key clue
to when a sick person may have a fungal infection is that he or she is being
treated with medications for another type of infection but does not get
better. **#ThinkFungus** when symptoms of infection do not get better with
treatment.

More



![Get Ahead of Sepsis](/about/images/facts/2018/0924-sepsis.jpg)

##### Week of September 24, 2018

Sepsis is the body's extreme response to an infection. At least 1.7 million
people get sepsis each year in the United States and nearly 270,000 Americans
die from sepsis each year. Get ahead of sepsis. Know the risks. Spot the
Signs. Act Fast.

More



![A pair of hands filling a pill
case](/about/images/facts/2018/0914-emergency-prescription-drugs.jpg)

##### Week of September 17, 2018

Nearly half of Americans take at least one prescription drug, and one in four
Americans take three or more medications. A large-scale natural disaster, such
as a hurricane, could make it difficult to get prescription and over-the-
counter medicines. Be Prepared. Create an emergency supply.

More



![two people holding hands](/about/images/facts/2018/Suicide-Prevention-Week-
square_1.jpg)

##### Week of September 9, 2018

Suicide Prevention Week. Suicide is the 10th leading cause of death in the US.
It was responsible for nearly 45,000 deaths in 2016, with approximately one
death every 12 minutes. #BeThere. If you or someone you know needs help, call
1-800-273-TALK (8255).

More



![September is Healthy Aging Month](/about/images/facts/2018/0903-healthy-
aging.jpg)

##### Week of September 3, 2018

September is Healthy Aging Month. The CDC's Healthy Aging Program serves as
the focal point at CDC for efforts to promote the health and quality of life
of older Americans. Learn more about healthy aging and access to general
health information for older adults.

More



![STDs can be prevented](/about/images/facts/2018/0820-contact-lens-
health_1.jpg)

##### Week of August 27, 2018

CDC estimates 20 million new sexually transmitted disease (STD) infections
occur every year in the United States. Youth ages 15-24 account for half of
those new STD infections. STDs can be prevented. Get the facts and take
control.

More



![Contact Lens Health Week](/about/images/facts/2018/0820-contact-lens-
health.jpg)

##### Week of August 20, 2018

**August 20-24** is Contact Lens Health Week. Failure to wear, clean, and
store your lenses as directed by your eye doctor raises the risk of developing
serious eye infections. Practice healthy habits now, for healthy eyes later.

More



![foodborne illness](/about/images/facts/2018/0813-foodborne-illness.jpg)

##### Week of August 13, 2018

Each year, 1 in 6 Americans get sick from eating contaminated food. Learn how
CDC tracks foodborne illnesses and collaborates with state and local health
departments and other federal agencies to investigate foodborne outbreaks.

More



![Disability Inclusion](/about/images/facts/2018/0806-disability-
inclusion.jpg)

##### Week of August 6, 2018

Nearly 1 in 5 people in the U.S. has a disability. Often, there are multiple
barriers that can make it difficult or even impossible for people with
disabilities to function. Learn more about practices and policies designed to
identify and remove barriers for people with disabilities.

More



![Ferris wheel](/about/images/facts/2018/0730-fairsandfood.jpg)

##### Week of July 30, 2018

A big part of summer for many people is attending fairs and festivals.
Remember, food safety practices should be the same at fairs as they are at
restaurants and at home: Clean, Separate, Cook, and Chill. Learn how to avoid
foodborne illness this summer.

More



![Preganant woman and her
doctor](/about/images/facts/2018/0723-groupbstrep.jpg)

##### Week of July 23, 2018

1 in 4 women in the United States carry Group B Strep (GBS), a common type of
bacteria. This type of bacteria can be very dangerous to babies if passed on
to them during childbirth. Learn more. Protect your baby from GBS.

More



![young women playing soccer](/about/images/facts/2018/0716-youthsports.jpg)

##### Week of July 16, 2018

It's National Youth Sports Week! To help ensure the health and safety of young
athletes, CDC developed the HEADS UP Concussion in Youth Sports initiative.
Learn more about preventing, recognizing, and responding to a concussion.

More



![extreme heat](/about/images/facts/2018/0709-extreme-heat.jpg)

##### Week of July 9, 2018

Extreme heat causes more than 600 deaths each year. Heat-related deaths and
illness are preventable. Take measures to stay cool, remain hydrated, and keep
informed.

More



![CDC estimates Salmonella causes about 1.2 million illnesses, 23,000
hospitalizations, and 450 deaths in the United States every year. Learn more
about Salmonella and how to protect you and your
family.](/about/images/facts/2018/0702-salmonella.jpg)

##### Week of July 2, 2018

CDC estimates _Salmonella_ causes about 1.2 million illnesses, 23,000
hospitalizations, and 450 deaths in the United States every year. Learn more
about _Salmonella_ and how to protect you and your family.

More



![Older man playing with child](/about/images/facts/2018/0625-alzheimers.jpg)

##### Week of June 25, 2018

Alzheimer's disease is the most common cause of dementia among older adults.
5.7 million Americans are estimated to be living with Alzheimer's disease in
2018. Learn more about Alzheimer's to recognize the differences between normal
aging and changes due to this condition. Learn more.

More



![Boy wearing life jacket near a body of
water](/about/images/facts/2018/0118-drowning.jpg)

##### Week of June 18, 2018

Drownings are a leading cause of injury death for young children ages 1 to 14.
Read these key prevention tips to keep children from drowning. Learn more.

More



![Baby with bright blue eyes](/about/images/facts/2018/0611-cmv.jpg)

##### Week of June 11, 2018

Congenital cytomegalovirus (pronounced sy-toe-MEG-a-low-vy-rus) or congenital
CMV for short can cause birth defects. About one out of every 200 babies is
born with congenital CMV. Learn more.

More



![rethink your drink](/about/images/facts/2018/Rethink-Your-Drink.png)

##### Week of June 4, 2018

Limiting the amount of sugar-sweetened beverage intake can help individuals
maintain a healthy weight and have a healthy diet. Rethink your drink! Learn
ways to reduce the number of calories you drink. Learn more.

More



![Adult woman helping an older
woman](/about/images/facts/2018/0525-osteoporosis.jpg)

##### Week of May 23, 2018

Osteoporosis is a medical condition where bones become weak and are more
likely to break. If one of your parents has had a broken bone, especially a
broken hip, early screening is important. Learn more.

More

![Young woman holding an infant](/about/images/facts/2018/maternal-
depression.jpg)

##### Week of May 21, 2018

CDC research shows that about 1 in 9 women experience symptoms of postpartum
depression--depression that occurs after having a baby. If you think you may
be depressed, seek treatment from your health care provider as soon as
possible."Learn more.

More

![Parents with young son](/about/images/facts/2018/0515-stroke-survivor-
thumbnail.jpg)

##### Week of May 15, 2018

Every 40 seconds, someone in the US has a stroke. Read these survivor stories
to learn more about stroke, including how you may be at risk, how to recognize
stroke, and what to do if stroke happens. Learn more.

More



![The Wharf construction site in Washington, DC.
](/about/images/facts/2018/0507-preventing-falls.jpg)

##### Week of May 7, 2018

Falls are the number one cause of construction-worker fatalities, accounting
for one-third of on-the-job deaths in the industry. Set aside time to talk
about falls in construction and how to prevent them. Learn more

More

![air quality awareness](/about/images/facts/2018/0430-air-quality-
awareness.jpg)

##### Week of April 30, 2018

Particle pollution has been linked to heart attacks and strokes, and even
death in people with heart disease. Get the Air Quality Index to know when to
expect high levels of air pollution and how to protect yourself. Learn more

More

![phone in car](/about/images/facts/2018/0423-distracted-driving.jpg)

##### Week of April 23, 2018

Each day in the US, approximately 9 people are killed and more than 1,000
injured in crashes reported to involve a distracted driver. Focusing on the
road can save lives. Learn more.

More

![Man and woman reading a pamplet](/about/images/facts/2018/0416-STD-
Awareness.jpg)

##### Week of April 16, 2018

April is STD Awareness Month. There's no avoiding the statistics: the number
of reported sexually transmitted disease (STD) cases are at an all-time high,
and if you are sexually active, you are at risk of infection. So what can you
do? Arm yourself with information

More

![Two people in hazmat suits](/about/images/facts/2018/0409-cdc-museum.jpg)

##### Week of April 9, 2018

Ever wonder how CDC scientists merge old-fashioned detective work with high-
tech science to crack the cases of mystery diseases? Visit the David J. Sencer
CDC Museum at CDC Headquarters.

More

![Scientist researching with egg](/about/images/facts/2018/0402-cdc-saving-
lives.jpg)

##### Week of April 2, 2018

CDC′s Work Saves Lives Everywhere, Every Day.

CDC's mission, simply put, is to keep Americans safe and healthy where they
work, live and play. Scientists and disease detectives work around the world
to track diseases, research outbreaks, respond to emergencies of all kinds.

More

![Doctor](/about/images/facts/2018/0327-world-tb-day.jpg)

##### Week of March 27, 2018

TB is preventable and curable, yet it remains the world's leading infectious
disease killer. Learn what CDC is doing in the United States and around the
world to eliminate this devastating disease.

More

![](/about/images/facts/2018/0319-Brain-safety.jpg)

##### Week of March 19, 2018

Traumatic brain injuries, also known as TBIs, affect the lives of Americans
nationwide. Anyone can experience a TBI, but data show that children and older
adults (ages 65 and older) are at greater risk.

More

![Mother and son cooking with vegetables and
fruits](/about/images/facts/2018/0312_Nutritionmonth.jpg)

##### Week of March 12, 2018

March is National Nutrition Month and this year's theme, "Go Further with
Food," encourages healthy eating habits and reducing food waste. Learn how to
help your family eat better and "Go Further with Food."

More

![Group of adults of various ages](/about/images/facts/2018/0305-adult-
immunization.jpg)

##### Week of March 5, 2018

Your need for immunization doesn't end when you become an adult. Get
vaccinated to protect yourself and your loved ones from serious diseases.

More

![a family posing for a selfie on a
beach](/about/images/facts/2018/0226-spring-break-travel.jpg)

##### Week of February 26, 2018

Wherever your travels take you this spring break, stay healthy and safe with
these tips.

More

![Woman wearing red](/about/images/facts/2018/0219-wear-red.jpg)

##### Week of February 19, 2018

Heart disease is the leading cause of death for women in the United States.
Take these steps to lower your risk.

More

![Sleepy female student](/about/images/facts/2018/0212_students-sleep.jpg)

##### Week of February 12, 2018

Children and adolescents who do not get enough sleep have a higher risk for
many health and behavior problems. Learn how much sleep students need and how
many are not getting it.

More

![Fireman](/about/images/facts/2018/0205-travel-health.jpg)

##### Week of February 5, 2018

Is an adventure off the beaten path on your to-do list this year? Learn about
your risks and prepare for a fun and safe trip with CDC Travelers' Health.

More

![](/about/images/facts/2018/0129-arthritis.jpg)

##### Week of January 29, 2018

Physical activity and exercise ease arthritis pain and improve the quality of
life of adults living with arthritis. More than 54 million US adults have
arthritis. Learn more.

More

![](/about/images/facts/2018/0115-smoking-cessation.jpg)

##### Week of January 15, 2018

Let this New Year be your time to quit smoking. ** **

More

![Do you have a cold or the flu? Compare the symptoms and learn more about flu
complications.](/about/images/facts/2018/01.08.18.FluSymptoms.jpg)

##### Week of January 8, 2018

Do you have a cold or the flu? Compare the symptoms and learn more about flu
complications.

More

![New year 2017 change to 2018 concept, Hand flip wood
cube](/about/images/facts/2018/01.02.18_Healthynewyear.jpg)

##### Week of January 2, 2018

Make 2018 your healthiest year yet! Add these tips to your resolution list to
boost your health and well-being.

More

Page last reviewed: January 8, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home About CDC 24-7

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Leadershipplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Director
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Principal Deputy Director
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC Staff Officesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Office of the Associate Director for Communication (OADC) 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Office of the Associate Director for Policy and Strategy (OADPS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Chief Medical Officer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Office of the Chief of Staff (OCS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Office of the Chief Operating Officer (OCOO)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC Washington Office
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Office of Equal Employment Opportunity (OEEO)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Public Health Service and Implementation Science (PHSIS)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Office of Minority Health and Health Equity (OMHHE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Center for Global Health (CGH)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Center for Preparedness and Response (CPR) 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Center for State, Tribal, Local, and Territorial Support (CSTLTS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Public Health Science and Surveillance (PHSS)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Office of Science (OS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Office of Laboratory Science and Safety (OLSS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Laboratory Services (CSELS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Non-Infectious Diseases (NID)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (NCBDDD)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion (NCCDPHP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * National Center for Environmental Health/Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry* (NCEH/ATSDR)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * National Center for Injury Prevention and Control (NCIPC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infectious Diseases (ID)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention (NCHHSTP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Past Directors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Speakers Bureauplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Request a Speaker
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC Director: Speaker Request
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Community & School Eventsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Community Relations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC Organizationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Mission, Role and Pledgeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pledge to the American People
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Organization Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Official Mission Statements & Organizational Charts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * A Bold Promise to the Nationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC Strategic Frameworkplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2019 Progress Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Securing Global Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Eliminating Disease 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Ending Epidemics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 2019 CDC Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Watch CDC @Work
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * I Am CDC â Meet the Staff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Fact of the Weekplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact of the Week Archives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Business Practicesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC Foundation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Laboratory Science & Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Diversity and Inclusion Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * More About CDCplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika Response & Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 2014 Ebola Outbreak Responseplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ebola Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC Archivesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Advisory Committees

Features Media

Social_round_rss RSS Sign up for Features

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC Newsroom
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC Timeline
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Gateway to Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Ethics Program

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM

