https://www.cdc.gov/vitalsigns/test-treat-prevent/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/vitalsigns/test-treat-prevent/index.html    
                Description: About 38,000 new HIV transmissions still occur each year. The US Government recently proposed Ending the HIV Epidemic: A Plan for America to reduce HIV transmission.    
                Keywords: CDC, CDC Vital Signs, hiv transmission, hiv epidemic, MMWR, Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, Vital Signs    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Vital Signs

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Ending HIV Transmission

Minus

Related Pages

![A group of individuals posing on a bridge.](/vitalsigns/test-treat-
prevent/images/vs-test-treat-prevent-header.jpg)

Ending HIV transmission

Test, Treat, and Prevent

![About 154,000 people \(14%\) who have HIV don’t know it and need
testing.](/vitalsigns/test-treat-prevent/images/vs-factoid-1.png)

About 154,000 people (14%) who have HIV don't know it and need testing.

![About 37% of people who know they have HIV don’t have it under control* and
need treatment.](/vitalsigns/test-treat-prevent/images/vs-factoid-2.png)

![1 in 6 adults experienced four or more types of ACEs.](/vitalsigns/test-
treat-prevent/images/vs-factoid-2-center.png)

About 37% of people who know they have HIV don't have it under control* and
need treatment.

![About 4 in 5 \(82%\) people who could benefit from medicine to prevent HIV
\(PrEP\) aren’t getting it.](/vitalsigns/test-treat-prevent/images/vs-
factoid-3.png)

![1 in 6 adults experienced four or more types of ACEs.](/vitalsigns/test-
treat-prevent/images/vs-factoid-3-center.png)

About 4 in 5 (82%) people who could benefit from medicine to prevent HIV
(PrEP)† aren't getting it.

How to end HIV transmission in the United States

pdf iconView Transcript media iconLow Resolution Video

## Overview

About 38,000 new HIV infections still occur each year. The US Government
recently proposed **_Ending the HIV Epidemic: A Plan_ for America** to reduce
HIV transmission. The goal is to reduce new HIV infections by 90% by 2030. To
end transmissions, people should first get tested for HIV so everyone knows
whether or not they have it. People with HIV should take HIV medicine every
day to control the virus, stay healthy, and have effectively no risk of sexual
transmission. People without HIV, but at high risk for it, can take a medicine
called PrEP to prevent them from getting HIV from sex when taken as
prescribed.

* HIV that is under control or undetectable has less than 200 copies of HIV per milliliter of blood.  
† Pre-exposure Prophylaxis, or PrEP, is an oral pill for people at very high
risk for getting HIV. When used as prescribed, PrEP can prevent HIV.

### Key actions to help end the HIV epidemic§

![Key actions to help end the HIV epidemic*; TEST FOR HIV: HIV tests determine
the next prevention step, PrEP or HIV treatment. 86 percent of people with HIV
know they have it. TARGET: 95 percent. PREVENT: People without HIV, but at
risk for it, can take PrEP as prescribed to prevent getting HIV. 18 percent of
those who could benefit from PrEP have a prescription for it. TARGET 50
percent. TREAT: People who know they have HIV should take medicine daily to
control the virus. 63 percent have the virus under control. TARGET 95 percent.
Note that the 4th pillar of Ending the HIV Epidemic, Respond, is not a part of
these Vital Signs data. ](/vitalsigns/test-treat-prevent/images/vs-test-treat-
prevent-info1.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Key actions to help end the HIV epidemic*; TEST FOR HIV: HIV tests
determine the next prevention step, PrEP or HIV treatment. 86 percent of
people with HIV know they have it. TARGET: 95 percent. PREVENT: People without
HIV, but at risk for it, can take PrEP as prescribed to prevent getting HIV.
18 percent of those who could benefit from PrEP have a prescription for it.
TARGET 50 percent. TREAT: People who know they have HIV should take medicine
daily to control the virus. 63 percent have the virus under control. TARGET 95
percent. Note that the 4th pillar of Ending the HIV Epidemic, Respond, is not
a part of these Vital Signs data. ](/vitalsigns/test-treat-prevent/images/vs-
test-treat-prevent-info1.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

View Text Description

§ The 4th pillar of Ending the HIV Epidemic, Respond, is not a part of these
Vital Signs data.  
SOURCE: _MMWR_ December 2019

### Too few people have their HIV under control within 6 months of diagnosis

![95 percent to 50 percent have HIV under control within 6 months of
diagnosis. Incomplete reporting, or laws do not require laboratory results to
show the virus is under control.](/vitalsigns/test-treat-prevent/images/vs-
test-treat-prevent-info2.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![95 percent to 50 percent have HIV under control within 6 months of
diagnosis. Incomplete reporting, or laws do not require laboratory results to
show the virus is under control.](/vitalsigns/test-treat-prevent/images/vs-
test-treat-prevent-info2.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

View Text Description

SOURCE: _MMWR_ December 2019

Problem

#####  **Progress has Stalled:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * In 2017, too few people with HIV, especially those ages 13-24 years, got the HIV medical care or medicine they need every day to control the virus.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Many infections (about 4 of 10) came from people who didn't know they had HIV in 2016.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Another 6 in 10 infections in 2016 came from people who knew they had HIV, but were not getting HIV medical care or taking medicine consistently to control the virus.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * PrEP wasn't prescribed to enough of the 1.2 million people who could benefit from it in 2018, especially young people and racial/ethnic minorities. PrEP coverage for whites is 4 to 7 times as high as for Latinos and blacks.

The Way Forward

#####  **Healthcare Providers Can:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Test all patients for HIV at least once in their lives.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Test people at high risk for HIV at least once a year. Gay and bisexual men may benefit from more frequent testing (every 3 to 6 months).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Initiate HIV treatment as soon as possible after diagnosis.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Prescribe PrEP to all patients who could benefit from it. Learn more at https://bit.ly/PrEPrx.

##### **Health Departments Can:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Expand HIV testing including use of self-test kits.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Find people who fall out of HIV care, and help them get back in care.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Raise awareness about PrEP and train health care providers in how and when to prescribe it.

##### **Everyone Can:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Get tested for HIV. Find where you can get tested at http://bit.ly/HIVtestnearby.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Talk with your healthcare provider about HIV prevention including PrEP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Stay healthy by taking your medicine as prescribed if you have HIV or are on PrEP.

Test, Treat, Prevent, and Respond

![A group of smiling people.](/vitalsigns/test-treat-prevent/images/vs-test-
treat-prevent-bottom.jpg)

 _ **Ending the HIV Epidemic: A Plan for America**_ would leverage critical
scientific advances in HIV testing, treatment, prevention, and response, by
coordinating highly successful programs and resources of the US Department of
Health and Human Services (HHS) agencies and offices. **_Ending the HIV_
Epidemic** would first focus on geographic areas that are hardest hit by HIV
to achieve the most impact. The intent is to expand nationally within 10
years.

Issue Details

#####  **Related Pages and Resources**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Vital Signs: Press Release - HIV Testing, Treatment, Prevention Not Reaching Enough Americans [English]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Vital Signs: Press Release - Un nuevo analisis muestra que tan lejos deben llegar los esfuerzos federales propuestos para acabar con la epidemia del VIH en los EE. UU. [Spanish]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Vital Signs: Status of Human Immunodeficiency Virus Testing, Viral Suppression, and HIV Preexposure Prophylaxis -- United States, Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Get Tested for HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * HIV Treatment as Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pre-exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * HIV Nexus: Information for Healthcare Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC's Role in Ending the HIV Epidemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Explore the Data: NCHHSTP AtlasPlus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Guidelines and Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Let's Stop HIV Together Campaigns

##### **Other Sites**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Ending the HIV Epidemic: A Plan for Americaexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * HIV.govexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * AIDSInfoexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * UNAIDSexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * MedlinePlus - HIV/AIDSexternal icon

##### **Science Behind the Issue**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Science Clips

**For More Information**  
1-800-CDC-INFO (232-4636)  
TTY: 1-888-232-6348  
Web: www.cdc.gov

**Centers for Disease Control and Prevention**  
1600 Clifton Road NE  
Atlanta, GA 30333  
Publication date: December 3, 2019

Page last reviewed: December 3, 2019

Content source: Office of the Associate Director for Communication

home Vital Signs

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Topics Covered
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * All CDC Vital Signs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Digital Media Tools

Social_govd govD  Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this

Submit

Get Connected

Social_round_rss RSS MMWR RSS

Social_round_rss RSS VitalSigns RSS

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Download this Fact Sheet pdf[1 MB, 2 Pages]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Read the MMWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Science Clips

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

image file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM

