https://www.cdc.gov/healthyweight/assessing/bmi/childrens_bmi/about_childrens_bmi.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/healthyweight/assessing/bmi/childrens_bmi/about_childrens_bmi.html    
                Description: BMI calculator for children and teens, BMI is age- and sex-specific and is often referred to as BMI-for-age. In children, a high amount of body fat can lead to weight-related diseases and other health issues and being underweight can also put one at risk for health issues. Learn more.    
                Keywords: bmi chart,  cdc bmi calculator,  cdc bmi,  body mass index,  bmi chart for kids,  bmi chart for children by age,  bmi percentile,  healthy bmi,  Child BMI,  Teen BMI,  BMI,  BMI Calculator,  Weight,  Overweight,  Obesity,  Assessing Your Weight,  Preventing Weight Gain,  Losing Weight,  Changing Eating Habits,  Caloric Balance,  Healthy Eating,  Planning Meals,  Physical Activity,  Exercise Effects of Overweight and Obesity, Obesity and Overweight, Healthy Weight, Childhood Overweight and Obesity    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Healthy Weight

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# About Child & Teen BMI

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

**On This Page**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What is BMI?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How is BMI calculated for children and teens?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What is a BMI percentile and how is it interpreted?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How is BMI used with children and teens?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Is BMI interpreted the same way for children and teens as it is for adults?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Why can't healthy weight ranges be provided for children and teens?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What are the BMI trends for children and teens in the United States?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How can I tell if my child is overweight or obese?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Can I determine if my child or teen is obese by using an adult BMI calculator?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * My two children have the same BMI values, but one is considered obese and the other is not. Why is that?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What are the health consequences of obesity during childhood?

###  What is BMI?

Body Mass Index (BMI) is a person's weight in kilograms divided by the square
of height in meters. For children and teens, BMI is age- and sex-specific and
is often referred to as BMI-for-age. In children, a high amount of body fat
can lead to weight-related diseases and other health issues and being
underweight can also put one at risk for health issues.

A high BMI can be an indicator of high body fatness. BMI does not measure body
fat directly, but research has shown that BMI is correlated with more direct
measures of body fat, such as skinfold thickness measurements, bioelectrical
impedance, densitometry (underwater weighing), dual energy x-ray
absorptiometry (DXA) and other methods1,2,3. BMI can be considered an
alternative to direct measures of body fat. In general, BMI is an inexpensive
and easy-to-perform method of screening for weight categories that may lead to
health problems.

  
![ BM Percentile Calculator for Children and
Teens](/healthyweight/images/assessing/childrens_calculator.jpg)

Child & Teen BMI Calculator

###  How is BMI calculated for children and teens?

Calculating BMI using the BMI Percentile Calculator involves the following
steps:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1. Measure height and weight. Refer to Measuring Children's Height and Weight Accurately At Home for guidance.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2. Use the Child and Teen BMI Calculator to calculate BMI. The BMI number is calculated using standard formulas.

###  What is a BMI percentile and how is it interpreted?

After BMI is calculated for children and teens, it is expressed as a
percentile which can be obtained from either a graph or a percentile
calculator (see links below). These percentiles express a child's BMI relative
to children in the U.S. who participated in national surveys that were
conducted from 1963-65 to 1988-944. Because weight and height change during
growth and development, as does their relation to body fatness, a child's BMI
must be interpreted relative to other children of the same sex and age.

BMI-for-age - Boys Growth ChartCdc-pdf [PDF-63 KB]

BMI-for-age - Girls Growth ChartCdc-pdf [PDF-49 KB]

BMI calculator for children and teens

The BMI-for-age percentile growth charts are the most commonly used indicator
to measure the size and growth patterns of children and teens in the United
States. BMI-for-age weight status categories and the corresponding percentiles
were based on expert committee recommendations and are shown in the following
table.

BMI-for-age weight status categories and the corresponding percentiles
**Weight Status Category** | **Percentile Range**  
---|---  
Underweight | Less than the 5th percentile  
Normal or Healthy Weight | 5th percentile to less than the 85th percentile  
Overweight | 85th to less than the 95th percentile  
Obese | Equal to or greater than the 95th percentile  
  
The following is an example of how sample BMI numbers would be interpreted for
a 10-year-old boy.

![Growth chart example showing range of different BMI percentiles for height
and age.](/healthyweight/images/assessing/growthchart_example1.gif)

ResizeView Larger

Close![](/healthyweight/images/assessing/growthchart_example1.gif)

Download_01Download ImageCdc-image [GIF, NAN ]



The CDC BMI-for-age growth charts are available at: CDC Growth Charts: United
States.

Top of Page

###  How is BMI used with children and teens?

For children and teens, BMI is not a diagnostic tool and is used to screen for
potential weight and health-related issues. For example, a child may have a
high BMI for their age and sex, but to determine if excess fat is a problem, a
health care provider would need to perform further assessments. These
assessments might include skinfold thickness measurements, evaluations of
diet, physical activity, family history, and other appropriate health
screenings. The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends the use of BMI to
screen for overweight and obesity in children beginning at 2 years old. For
children under the age of 2 years old, consult the WHO standardsExternal.

Top of Page

/span>

###  Is BMI interpreted the same way for children and teens as it is for
adults?

BMI is interpreted differently for children and teens even though it is
calculated as weight ÷ height2. Because there are changes in weight and height
with age, as well as their relation to body fatness, BMI levels among children
and teens need to be expressed relative to other children of the same sex and
age. These percentiles are calculated from the CDC growth charts, which were
based on national survey data collected from 1963-65 to 1988-944.

Obesity is defined as a BMI at or above the 95th percentile for children and
teens of the same age and sex. For example, a 10-year-old boy of average
height (56 inches) who weighs 102 pounds would have a BMI of 22.9 kg/m2. This
would place the boy in the 95th percentile for BMI, and he would be considered
to have obesity. This means that the child's BMI is greater than the BMI of
95% of 10-year-old boys in the reference population.

Access the CDC Growth Charts here:
http://www.cdc.gov/growthcharts/clinical_charts.htm

For adults, BMI is interpreted as weight status categories that are not
dependent on sex or age. Read more: How to interpret BMI for adult BMI

Top of Page

###  Why can't healthy weight ranges be provided for children and teens?

Normal or healthy weight weight status is based on BMI between the 5th and
85th percentile on the CDC growth chart. It is difficult to provide healthy
weight ranges for children and teens because the interpretation of BMI depends
on weight, height, age, and sex.

Top of Page

###  What are the BMI trends for children and teens in the United States?

The prevalence of children and teens who measure in the 95th percentile or
greater on the CDC growth charts has greatly increased over the past 40 years.
Recently, however, this trend has leveled off and has even declined in certain
age groups.

To learn more about child and teen obesity trends, visit Childhood Obesity
Facts.

Top of Page

###  How can I tell if my child is overweight or obese?

CDC and the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) recommend the use of BMI to
screen for overweight and obesity in children and teens age 2 through 19
years. For children under the age of 2 years old, consult the WHO
standardsExternal. Although BMI is used to screen for overweight and obesity
in children and teens, BMI is not a diagnostic tool. To determine whether the
child has excess fat, further assessment by a trained health professional
would be needed.

For information about the consequences of childhood obesity, its contributing
factors and more, see Tips for Parents - Ideas and Tips to Help Prevent
Childhood Obesity.

Top of Page

###  Can I determine if my child or teen is obese by using an adult BMI
calculator?

In general, it's not possible to do this.

The adult calculator provides only the BMI value (weight/height2) and not the
BMI percentile that is needed to interpret BMI among children and teens. It is
not appropriate to use the BMI categories for adults to interpret the BMI of
children and teens.

However, if a child or teen has a BMI of ≥ 30 kg/m2, the child is almost
certainly obese. A BMI of 30 kg/m2 is approximately the 95th percentile among
17-year-old girls and 18-year-old boys.

Top of Page

###  My two children have the same BMI values, but one is considered obese and
the other is not. Why is that?

The interpretation of BMI varies by age and sex. So if the children are not
the same age and the same sex, the interpretation of BMI has different
meanings. For children of different age and sex, the same BMI could represent
different BMI percentiles and possibly different weight status categories.

See the following graphic for an example for a 10-year-old boy and a 15-year-
old boy who both have a BMI-for-age of 23. (Note that two children of
different ages are plotted on the same growth chart to illustrate a point.
Normally the measurement for only one child is plotted on a growth chart.)

![Growth chart example showing differing percentiles for same
BMI.](/healthyweight/images/assessing/growthchart_example2.gif)

ResizeView Larger

Close![](/healthyweight/images/assessing/growthchart_example2.gif)

Download_01Download ImageCdc-image [GIF, NAN ]



Top of Page

###  What are the health consequences of obesity during childhood?

#### Health risks now

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Childhood obesity can have a harmful effect on the body in a variety of ways. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * High blood pressure and high cholesterol, which are risk factors for cardiovascular disease (CVD). In one study, 70% of obese children had at least one CVD risk factor, and 39% had two or more.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Increased risk of impaired glucose tolerance, insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Breathing problems, such as sleep apnea, and asthma.8,10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Joint problems and musculoskeletal discomfort.8,11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fatty liver disease, gallstones, and gastro-esophageal reflux (i.e., heartburn). 7,8,9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Psychological stress such as depression, behavioral problems, and issues in school.12,13,14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Low self-esteem and low self-reported quality of life.12,14,15,16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Impaired social, physical, and emotional functioning.12

#### Health risks later

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Obese children are more likely to become obese adults.17 Adult obesity is associated with a number of serious health conditions including heart disease, diabetes, and some cancers.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * If children are overweight, obesity in adulthood is likely to be more severe.17

Top of Page

Measuring Children's Height and Weight Accurately At Home

References

1Garrow, J.S. & Webster, J., 1985. Quetelet's index (W/H2) as a measure of
fatness. _Int. J. Obes_., 9(2), pp.147-153.

2Freedman, D.S., Horlick, M. & Berenson, G.S., 2013. A comparison of the
Slaughter skinfold-thickness equations and BMI in predicting body fatness and
cardiovascular disease risk factor levels in children. _Am. J. Clin. Nutr_.,
98(6), pp.1417-24.

3Wohlfahrt-Veje, C. et al., 2014. Body fat throughout childhood in 2647
healthy Danish children: agreement of BMI, waist circumference, skinfolds with
dual X-ray absorptiometry. _Eur. J. Clin. Nutr_., 68(6), pp.664-70.

4Kuczmarski, R.J. et al., 2002. 2000 CDC Growth Charts for the United States:
methods and development. _Vital Health Stat. 11_., 11(246), pp.1-190.

5Ogden CL, Flegal KM, Carroll MD, Johnson CL. Prevalence and trends in
overweight among US children and adolescents, 1999-2000. JAMA.
2002;288:1728-32.

6Freedman DS, Mei Z, Srinivasan SR, Berenson GS, Dietz WH. Cardiovascular risk
factors and excess adiposity among overweight children and adolescents: the
Bogalusa Heart Study. _J Pediatr_. 2007;150(1):12--17.e2.

7Whitlock EP, Williams SB, Gold R, Smith PR, Shipman SA. Screening and
interventions for childhood overweight: a summary of evidence for the US
Preventive Services Task Force. _Pediatrics_. 2005;116(1):e125--144.

8Han JC, Lawlor DA, Kimm SY. Childhood obesity. _Lancet_. May 15
2010;375(9727):1737--1748.

9Vos MB, McClain CJ. Nutrition and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease in
children. _Current Gastroenterology Reports_. Jun 2008; 10(3): 308-15.

10Sutherland ER. Obesity and asthma. _Immunol Allergy Clin North Am_.
2008;28(3):589--602, ix.

11Taylor ED, Theim KR, Mirch MC, et al. Orthopedic complications of overweight
in children and adolescents. _Pediatrics_. Jun 2006;117(6):2167--2174.

12Morrison KM., et al. Association of depression & health related quality of
life with body composition in children and youth with obesity. _Journal of
affective disorders_ 172 (2015): 18-23.

13Mustillo S, et al. Obesity and psychiatric disorder: developmental
trajectories. _Pediatrics_ 111.4 (2003): 851-859.

14Halfon N, Larson K, and Slusser W. Associations between obesity and comorbid
mental health, developmental, and physical health conditions in a nationally
representative sample of US children aged 10 to 17. _Academic pediatrics_ 13.1
(2013): 6-13.

15Schwimmer JB, Burwinkle TM, and Varni JW. Health-related quality of life of
severely obese children and adolescents. _Jama_ 289.14 (2003): 1813-1819.

16Taylor VH., et al. The impact of obesity on quality of life. _Best Practice
& Research Clinical Endocrinology & Metabolism_ 27.2 (2013): 139-146.

17Cunningham SA, Kramer MR, Venkat Narayan KM. Incidence of childhood obesity
in the United States. _New England Journal of Medicine_ 2014; 370 : 403-411.

18Kelsey MM, Zaepfel A, Bjornstad P, Nadeau KJ. Age-related consequences of
childhood obesity. _Gerontology_ 2014; 60(3):222-8.

Page last reviewed: July 3, 2018

Content source: Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity,
National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion

home Healthy Weight

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Assessing Your Weight expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Body Mass Index (BMI)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About Adult BMI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adult BMI Calculator expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Metric Version
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About Child & Teen BMI expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Measuring Childrenâs Height and Weight Accurately At Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Child & Teen BMI Calculator
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Childrenâs BMI Tool for Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Finding a Balance expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Other Factors in Weight Gain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Preventing Weight Gain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Losing Weight expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Getting Started
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Improving Your Eating Habits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Keeping It Off
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Healthy Eating for a Healthy Weight expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Planning Meals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Cutting Calories expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Eat More, Weigh Less?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Rethink Your Drink
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Portion Pitfalls
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Using Fruits & Vegetables to Manage Your Weight
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Healthy Recipes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Physical Activity for a Healthy Weight expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Getting Started
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tips for Parents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Health Effects of Overweight & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * External Resources

ï»¿

email_03Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this topic, enter your email address.

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity

![DNPAO logo](/nccdphp/dnpao/images/home/dnpao-links-logo_187px.png)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nutrition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Physical Activity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Overweight & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Healthy Weight
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Breastfeeding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Micronutrient Malnutrition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * State and Local Programs

Related Topics

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nutrition

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

Artboard 124 download_01  PDF image file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM

