https://www.cdc.gov/cdctv/diseaseandconditions/outbreaks/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/cdctv/diseaseandconditions/outbreaks/index.html    
                Description: Videos on outbreaks - CDC-TV    
                Keywords: infectious disease outbreaks,  US based,  international outbreaks,  travelers,  health threats,  salmonella,  meningitis,  multistate outbreak,  foodborne outbreaks,  global disease detection,  health advisories, CDC TV, Outbreaks, Diseases &amp; Conditions A-Z Index    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

CDC-TV

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email
                      * Syndicate

# Diseases & Conditions - Outbreak Videos

Minus

Related Pages

![CoVid19](/cdctv/images/diseaseandconditions/outbreaks/covid19/CoVid19_Thumbnail-100x100px.jpg)

#### CoVid-19: Stop the Spread of Germs (:29)

CoVid-19 Coronavirus Disease

* * *

![Uganda python Cave](/cdctv/images/diseaseandconditions/uganda-python-
cave/uganda-pytho-cave-100px.jpg)

#### Uganda Python Cave (2:32)

Promoting DHCPP's work on a project in Uganda's Python cave

* * *

![Graphic: Norovirus spreads
fast](/cdctv/images/diseaseandconditions/outbreaks/preventing-
norovirus/preventing-norovirus_100px.jpg)

#### Preventing Norovirus (2:11)

How to prevent norovirus when cleaning up vomit or poop

* * *

![Foodborne
outbreaks](/cdctv/images/diseaseandconditions/outbreaks/foodborne/Foodborne-
Outbreaks-100px.jpg)

#### CDC in Action: Foodborne Outbreaks (2:19)

CDC Actively works to prevent foodborne disease outbreaks or solve them if
they occur.

* * *

![Trouble with tiny
turtles](/cdctv/images/diseaseandconditions/outbreaks/tiny-
turtles/Trouble_With_Tiny_Turtles_100x100.jpg)

#### The Trouble with Tiny Turtles (1:52)

This video provides information about dangers associated with "tiny" Turtles
or those with shells smaller than 4 inches long, especially with regard to
Salmonella bacteria and outbreaks.

* * *

![Rat lungworm diseases](/cdctv/images/diseaseandconditions/outbreaks/rat-
lungworm/RatWormDisease-100px.jpg)

#### What is Rat Lungworm (Angiostrongylus) Disease? (2:40)

This video provides information about what Rat Lungworm (Angiostrongylus)
Disease is, where it is found, how its transmitted, and how to prevent its
spread.

* * *

![CDC: Protecting Americans through Global
Health](/cdctv/images/diseaseandconditions/outbreaks/global-
health/275129_ProtectingAmericans-100x100.jpg)

#### CDC: Protecting Americans through Global Health (3:44)

This video was created to raise awareness of CDC's important global health
work to protect Americans and save lives.

* * *

##### **Other versions:**

                      * Spanish (2:36)
                      * Zika Virus Prevention for Puerto Rico (:30) | Spanish (:30)

![Zika Virus Prevention](/cdctv/images/diseaseandconditions/outbreaks/zika-
virus-prevention/zikasummary-100x100.jpg)

#### Zika Virus Prevention: Summary for General Public in Puerto Rico (2:22)

Effective steps you can take to protect yourself, your family, and your
community from the spread of Zika virus: cover and repel; remove collected
water; keep mosquitoes out of your home; and if you're pregnant and have sex,
use condoms. For general public use in Puerto Rico.

* * *

![CDC Video: Ebola and Contact
Tracing](/cdctv/images/diseaseandconditions/outbreaks/ebolacontact/thumbnail-
ebola-contact.jpg)

#### Ebola and Contact Tracing (2:45)

The video describes contact tracing, a method used by CDC and partners to
identify new Ebola cases quickly and isolate patients as soon as they show
symptoms, preventing spread to others. The video demonstrates how even one
missed contact can keep Ebola spreading and that careful tracing of contacts
and isolating new cases can stop the outbreak.

* * *

![CDC Video: Global Disease Detectives in
Kibera](/cdctv/images/diseaseandconditions/outbreaks/gdd-in-kibera/thumbnail-
gdd-kiberia.jpg)

#### Global Disease Detectives in Kibera (5:35)

The mini-documentary chronicles how the US reaches out to Kenya's largest slum
to offer aid in disease prevention and control. 30,000 residents routinely
confer with community outreach workers in a campaign to learn more about
emerging diseases, and simultaneously provide care for the families taking
part. Benefits extend to Americans and the entire world as our disease
detectives find new ways to provide early warning of global disease threats
that respect no borders.

* * *

![CDC Video: Responding to
Outbreaks](/cdctv/images/diseaseandconditions/outbreaks/respondoutbreaks/thumbnail-
respond-outbreaks.jpg)

#### Responding to Outbreaks (6:25)

An outbreak of the Ebola virus hits in western Uganda and caused dozens of
illnesses or deaths. In "Responding to Outbreaks", a team of investigators
from the CDC Special Pathogens Branch travels to Uganda. They work to bring
the outbreak under control and learn more about the reservoir hosts for the
Ebola and Marburg viruses.

* * *

![The Road to
Zero](/cdctv/images/diseaseandconditions/outbreaks/gettingtozero/thumbnaill-
GettingtoZero.jpg)

#### The Road to Zero (5:32)

CDC responded to the Ebola outbreak in West Africa, with the goal of getting
to zero new cases in the affected countries and, just as important, keeping
them at zero.

* * *

![Zika Virus
101](/cdctv/images/diseaseandconditions/outbreaks/zika101/thumbnailZika.jpg)

#### Zika Virus 101 (3:57)

We explain what Zika is, where and how Zika virus spreads (mainly transmitted
by mosquitoes, but transmission through sexual contact also possible). How to
reduce infection risk is also explained .

Related Videos

                      * The Immunization Baby Book (4:16)
                      * Baby Steps: Learn the Signs. Act Early. (4:32)
                      * Dangerous Creatures - A Visit To The CDC Insectary (5:48)
                      * Finding a Balance (4:18)
                      * Hidden Sodium (1:03)
                      * Making Health Easier: Healthy Changes Start in Preschool (3:54)
                      * Our Cultures Are Our Source of Health (9:02)
                      * Salt Matters: Preserving Choice, Protecting Health (4:30)
                      * Take 3 (:60)
                      * The Story of Folic Acid Fortification (6:37)
                      * Vital Signs - High Blood Pressure (2:22)
                      * Way to Go: Many Healthy Returns (4:00)
                      * Wes Studi: Don't Get Don't Spread (:60)
                      * Wes Studi: Seasonal Flu (:60)
                      * Wes Studi: Signs (:60)
                      * Why Surveillance Matters (:45)

Send Us Feedback

What do you think of our videos? Your feedback about CDC-TV and our videos is
very important to us. Send us a comment about our videos.

Learn more about CDC-TV

Page last reviewed: March 6, 2020

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home CDC-TV

                      * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                        * Disease Detective Camp
                        * Global Disease Detectives
                        * Why Surveillance Matters
                      * Diseases & Conditionsplus icon
                        * Cancerplus icon
                          * Be Brave
                          * No Excuses plus icon
                            * No Excuses (:60)
                            * No Excuses (:30)
                          * Screen for Lifeplus icon
                            * Screen for Life: Meryl Streep (:60)
                            * Screen for Life: Meryl Streep (:30) Version A
                            * Screen for Life: Meryl Streep (:30) Version B
                          * Your Wake-Up Call
                        * Common Conditions plus icon
                          * A Change for Life
                          * Arthritis Pain Reliever
                          * Blood Sugar and Fears
                          * Can you quickly recognize symptoms of acute flaccid myelitis?
                          * Diabetes
                          * The Story of Iyal
                          * Myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS)
                        * HIVplus icon
                          * A Need To Know
                          * HIV/AIDS 101
                          * Jamie Foxx Talks About HIV
                          * Letâs Stop HIV Togetherplus icon
                            * Letâs Stop HIV Together: Jamar Rogers
                            * Letâs Stop HIV Together: PSA
                            * Letâs Stop HIV Together: Shanaâs Story
                            * Letâs Stop HIV Together : Tommyâs Story
                          * Ludacris Talks About HIV
                        * Influenza plus icon
                          * Cover Your Coughs and Sneezes â Kids (:18)
                          * Cover Your Coughs and Sneezes â Penguin (:18)
                          * Fighting Fluplus icon
                            * Fighting Flu (3:35)
                            * Fighting Flu (:60)
                            * Fighting Flu (:30)
                          * H1N1 (Swine Flu)
                          * I Never Get The Flu
                          * Influenza Round Tableplus icon
                            * Influenza Round Table: Antiviral Drugs â 2010
                            * Influenza Round Table: Antiviral Drugs â 2009
                            * Influenza Round Table: Donât Get, Donât Spread â 2010
                            * Influenza Round Table: Donât Get, Donât Spread â 2009
                            * Influenza Round Table: Take 3 â 2010
                            * Influenza Round Table: Take 3 â 2009
                            * Influenza Round Table: Warning Signs â 2010
                            * Influenza Round Table: Warning Signs â 2009
                          * Mixing TamifluÂ® with Sweet Liquids
                          * Wes Studi: Antiviralsplus icon
                            * Wes Studi: Antivirals (:60)
                            * Wes Studi: Antivirals (:30)
                          * Why Flu Vaccination Matters
                        * Lifestyleplus icon
                          * Healthy Swimming Is No Accident
                          * High Blood Pressure
                          * No Antibiotics Please
                          * Parents Want To Do Whatâ²s Best
                          * The Obesity Epidemic
                        * Outbreaksplus icon
                          * CDC: Protecting Americans through Global Health
                          * Ebola and Contact Tracing
                          * Foodborne Outbreaks
                          * Global Disease Detectives in Kibera
                          * Preventing Norovirus
                          * Responding to Outbreaks
                          * The Road to Zero
                          * The Trouble with Tiny Turtles
                          * What is Rat Lungworm (Angiostrongylus) Disease?
                          * Uganda Python Cave
                          * Zika Virus 101
                          * Zika Virus Prevention: Puerto Ricoplus icon
                            * Zika Virus Prevention: Summary for General Public in Puerto Rico (2:22)
                            * Zika Virus Prevention for Puerto Rico (:30)
                        * Vaccinationplus icon
                          * A Key Piece of the Puzzle: Vaccinations
                          * Adult Vaccinesplus icon
                            * Adult Vaccines (3:41)
                            * Adult Vaccines (3:01)
                          * Childhood Immunizations
                          * Get Vaccinated and Prevent Measles (1:01)
                          * H1N1 Vaccine Questions
                          * Have You Heard?
                          * Protecting Babies with Vaccination
                          * Protect Yourself, Protect Your Baby
                          * VSI: Vaccine Scene Investigation
                          * What You Need To Know About Measles Vaccination
                      * Emergency Preparedness & Responseplus icon
                        * A New Era of Preparedness
                        * Emergency Operations Center (EOC) 101
                        * Emergency Operations Center 
                        * CDC Laboratory Science: Mission Critical
                        * Saving Lives, Protecting People
                      * Environmental Healthplus icon
                        * CDC Tracking Network
                        * Choose Safe Places for Early Care and Education
                        * Health Begins at Home
                        * Noise is All Around You
                        * Smoke-free Multiunit Housing
                        * The Quiet Killer
                      * Healthy Livingplus icon
                        * Antibiotic Resistance
                        * Healthy Eatingplus icon
                          * A Grocery Storeâs Healthy Options 
                          * A Plate Full of Color
                          * Finding a Balance
                          * Healthy Corner Stores
                          * Healthy Snacking in Philadelphia, PA
                          * Hidden Sodium
                          * Salt Mattersplus icon
                            * Salt Matters: Preserving Choice, Protecting Health (4:30)
                            * Salt Matters: Preserving Choice, Protecting Health (2:00)
                          * Tricky Treats
                        * Hygieneplus icon
                          * Fight Germs. Wash Your Hands!
                          * Go with the Flow
                          * Hand Hygiene Saves Lives
                          * Wash Your Hands
                          * What You Need To Know About Handwashing
                        * Physical Activityplus icon
                          * Knees Lifted High
                          * Making Health Easier: Active Living in Philadelphia, PA
                      * Injury, Violence & Safetyplus icon
                        * A Time To Act
                        * Binge Drinking
                        * Break the Silence: Stop the Violence
                        * Injury Prevention Research
                        * In the Swim of Things
                        * What You Need to Know about Permethrin
                        * Safe Teen Drivers
                      * Life Stages & Populationsplus icon
                        * A Killer in Indian Country
                        * Baby Steps: Learn the Signs. Act Early.
                        * Dangerous Creatures
                        * Healthy Changes Start in Preschool
                        * Our Cultures Are Our Source of Healthplus icon
                          * Our Cultures Are Our Source of Health (9:02)
                          * Our Cultures Are Our Source of Health (:60)
                          * Our Cultures Are Our Source of Health (:30)
                        * Take 3
                        * Teen Pregnancy
                        * The Immunization Baby Book
                        * The Story of Folic Acid Fortification 
                        * Through the Eyes of the Eagle
                        * Wes Studi: Donât Get Donât Spread
                        * Wes Studi: Seasonal Flu
                        * Wes Studi: Signsplus icon
                          * Wes Studi: Signs (:60)
                          * Wes Studi: Signs (:30)
                      * Travelerâs Healthplus icon
                        * Way to Goplus icon
                          * Way to Go: Many Healthy Returns (4:00)
                          * Way to Go: Passport To Health (4:17)
                      * Vital Signsplus icon
                        * Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACEs)
                        * High Blood Pressure
                        * How to end HIV transmission in the United States
                        * Naloxone
                        * Vaccinating Pregnant Women
                      * Spanishplus icon
                        * Diseases & Conditionsplus icon
                          * CÃºbrete la nariz y la boca al toser o estornudar (pingÃ¼ino)
                          * CÃºbrete la nariz y la boca al toser o estornudar (niÃ±os)
                          * Diabetes
                          * Encefalomielitis miÃ¡lgica y el SÃ­ndrome de Fatiga CrÃ³nica (SFC/EM)
                          * Hablemos de la Influenza
                          * Influenzaplus icon
                            * Influenza (:30)
                            * Influenza (:60)
                          * No Hay Excusas 
                          * Permetrina
                          * PresiÃ³n Arterial Alta
                          * PrevenciÃ³n del virus del Zika para Puerto Rico
                          * Resistencia a los AntibiÃ³ticos
                          * plus icon
                            * PrevenciÃ³n del virus del Zika: Resumen para el pÃºblico en general de Puerto Rico (2:36)
                            * PrevenciÃ³n del virus del Zika para Puerto Rico (:30)
                          * Un cambio para toda la vida
                          * VacÃºnese y prevenga el sarampiÃ³n
                          * Vacuna Contra el SarampiÃ³n
                        * Emergency Preparedness & Responseplus icon
                          * Centro de Operaciones de Emergencia (COE)
                        * Environmental Healthplus icon
                          * Elija lugares seguros para el cuidado y la educaciÃ³n temprana
                          * Por quÃ© son tan importantes los servicios de salud ambiental
                        * Healthy Livingplus icon
                          * Acabe con los microbios. Â¡LÃ¡vese las manos!
                          * Higiene De Las Manos Salva Vidas
                          * Lavado de Manos
                        * Life Stages & Populationsplus icon
                          * Hacer HÃ¡bitos Saludables MÃ¡s FÃ¡cil en GuarderÃ­as Infantiles
                        * Recursos Sobre Violenciaplus icon
                          * Â¿QuÃ© son el abuso y la negligencia infantil?
                          * Â¿QuÃ© es el suicidio?
                          * Â¿QuÃ© es la violencia de pareja Ã­ntima?
                          * Â¿QuÃ© es la violencia juvenil?
                          * Â¿QuÃ© es la violencia sexual?
                        * Vital Signsplus icon
                          * Vital Signs â PresiÃ³n Arterial Alta
                      * Other Languagesplus icon
                        * Arabicplus icon
                          * Ø§Ø­ØµÙ Ø¹ÙÙ Ø§ÙØªØ·Ø¹ÙÙ ÙØªØ¬ÙØ¨ Ø§ÙØ­ØµØ¨Ø©
                        * French

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

## About CDC-TV

CDC-TV videos cover a variety of health, safety and preparedness topics and
include closed-captioning. Videos are prepared for different audiences
including, children, parents, and public health professionals.

More >

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                      * About CDC
                      * Jobs
                      * Funding
                      * Policies
                      * File Viewers & Players

                      * Privacy
                      * FOIA
                      * No Fear Act
                      * OIG
                      * Nondiscrimination
                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * Youtube
                      * Instagram
  

                      * Syndicate
                      * CDC TV
                      * RSS
                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

