https://www.cdc.gov/vitalsigns/naloxone/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/vitalsigns/naloxone/index.html    
                Description: About 48,000 US drug overdose deaths involved opioids in 2017. Naloxone is a life-saving medication that can reverse the effects of an opioid overdose. Pharmacists and other healthcare providers play a critical role in ensuring patients receive naloxone.    
                Keywords: CDC, CDC Vital Signs, naloxone, overdose deaths, opioid prescriptions, opioid overdose, pharmacists, pharmacy, healthcare providers, MMWR, Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, Vital Signs    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Vital Signs

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Life-Saving Naloxone from Pharmacies

Minus

Related Pages

![A pharmacist talks with a patient about a prescription.
](/vitalsigns/naloxone/images/naloxone-vs-header-v3.jpg)

Life-Saving Naloxone from Pharmacies

More dispensing needed despite progress

![A pharmacist talks with a patient about a prescription.
](/vitalsigns/naloxone/images/naloxone-vs-header-mobile.jpg)

Life-Saving Naloxone from Pharmacies

More dispensing needed despite progress

![The number of prescriptions for naloxone doubled from 2017 to
2018.](/vitalsigns/naloxone/images/vs-naloxone-factoid1.png)

![The number of prescriptions for naloxone doubled from 2017 to
2018.](/vitalsigns/naloxone/images/vs-naloxone-factoid1-center.png)

The number of prescriptions for naloxone doubled from 2017 to 2018.

![Only 1 naloxone prescription is dispensed for every 70 high-dose opioid
prescriptions.](/vitalsigns/naloxone/images/vs-naloxone-factoid2.png)

Only 1 naloxone prescription is dispensed for every 70 high-dose opioid
prescriptions.

![Rural counties are nearly 3 times more likely to be ranked low dispensing
than metropolitan counties.](/vitalsigns/naloxone/images/vs-naloxone-
factoid3.png)

![Rural counties are nearly 3 times more likely to be ranked low dispensing
than metropolitan counties.](/vitalsigns/naloxone/images/vs-naloxone-
factoid3-center.png)

Rural counties are nearly 3 times more likely to be ranked low dispensing than
metropolitan counties.

Highlights

Emergency Physicians and Opioid Overdoses: A Call to Aidexternal iconexternal
icon (Annals  _of_  Emergency Medicine) - Commentary by Dr. Debra Houry,
Director of CDC's National Center for Injury Prevention and Control; and Dr.
Jerome Adams, US Surgeon General

Naloxone Co-prescribing to Patients Receiving Prescription Opioids in the
Medicare Part D Program, United States, 2016-2017external iconexternal icon
(JAMA) - Research Letter by Dr. Christopher M. Jones et al. (CDC, NIH, DHHS)

* * *

##### **FREE webinar featuring the U.S. Surgeon General and a CDC opioid
expert**

HHS and CDC Recommendations to Expand the Use of Naloxone--A Life-saving, yet
Underutilized Drug for Reversing Opioid Overdose

**Date** : Tuesday, September 17, 2019

**Time** : 2:00 pm-3:00 pm (Eastern Time)

FREE Continuing Education

More Information on Webinar

![Vice Admiral Jerome M. Adams, MD, MPH \(USPHS\) 20th US Surgeon
General](/vitalsigns/naloxone/images/jerome-adams.jpg)

Vice Admiral Jerome M. Adams, MD, MPH (USPHS)  
20th US Surgeon General

![CAPT Christopher M. Jones, PharmD, DrPH, MPH \(USPHS\) National Center for
Injury Prevention and Control, CDC](/vitalsigns/naloxone/images/chris-
jones.jpg)

CAPT Christopher M. Jones, PharmD, DrPH, MPH (USPHS)  
National Center for Injury Prevention and Control, CDC

Increased use of naloxone can help end the opioid overdose epidemic.

pdf iconView Transcript media iconLow Resolution Video

## Overview

About 48,000 US drug overdose deaths involved opioids in 2017. Naloxone is a
life-saving medication that can reverse the effects of an opioid overdose.
Pharmacists and other healthcare providers play a critical role in ensuring
patients receive naloxone. Many states have laws that allow pharmacists to
dispense naloxone without a prescription (called standing orders), which have
contributed to lowering deaths. Dispensing has increased in recent years, but
more work needs to be done, particularly in rural counties.

**Improvements could be made by:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Following the _CDC Guideline for Prescribing Opioids for Chronic Pain_ to consider offering naloxone to patients receiving high opioid dosages (greater than or equal to 50 morphine milligram equivalents per day).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Keeping naloxone in stock in pharmacies.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Educating patients, caregivers, and the community about the benefits of having naloxone readily available to more people.

### Major changes in opioid and naloxone dispensing occurred from 2017 to
2018.

![Major changes in opioid and naloxone dispensing occurred from 2017 to 2018.
High-dose opioid prescriptions In 2017, there were 48 million high-dose opioid
prescriptions dispensed. In 2018, there were 38 million high-dose opioid
prescriptions dispensed, a decrease of 21 percent. Naloxone prescriptions In
2017, there were 270,000 naloxone prescriptions dispensed. In 2018, there were
556,000 naloxone prescriptions dispensed. SOURCE: Vital Signs MMWR, August
2019](/vitalsigns/naloxone/images/naloxone-vs-infographic1.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Major changes in opioid and naloxone dispensing occurred from 2017 to
2018. High-dose opioid prescriptions In 2017, there were 48 million high-dose
opioid prescriptions dispensed. In 2018, there were 38 million high-dose
opioid prescriptions dispensed, a decrease of 21 percent. Naloxone
prescriptions In 2017, there were 270,000 naloxone prescriptions dispensed. In
2018, there were 556,000 naloxone prescriptions dispensed. SOURCE: Vital Signs
MMWR, August 2019](/vitalsigns/naloxone/images/naloxone-vs-infographic1.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

View Text Description

SOURCE: Vital Signs MMWR, August 2019

### Co-prescribing naloxone is recommended for patients at risk for opioid
overdose.

![Co-prescribing naloxone is recommended for patients at risk for opioid
overdose. 9 MILLION: Drawing of the U.S. showing a diverse group of people. If
each person with a high-dose opioid prescription were offered naloxone, nearly
9 million prescriptions for naloxone could have been dispensed in 2018. Risk
Factors for Overdose. High-dose opioid prescriptions. Opioids taken with
benzodiazepines. History of substance use disorder. Misusing prescription
opioids or using illicit drugs \(either opioids or potentially contaminated
with opioids\)](/vitalsigns/naloxone/images/naloxone-vs-infographic2.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Co-prescribing naloxone is recommended for patients at risk for opioid
overdose. 9 MILLION: Drawing of the U.S. showing a diverse group of people. If
each person with a high-dose opioid prescription were offered naloxone, nearly
9 million prescriptions for naloxone could have been dispensed in 2018. Risk
Factors for Overdose. High-dose opioid prescriptions. Opioids taken with
benzodiazepines. History of substance use disorder. Misusing prescription
opioids or using illicit drugs \(either opioids or potentially contaminated
with opioids\)](/vitalsigns/naloxone/images/naloxone-vs-infographic2.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

View Text Description

SOURCE: Vital Signs MMWR, August 2019

Problem

##### People who may need naloxone are not all getting it.

There is wide variation in prescribing and dispensing across the US despite
consistent state laws and recommendations. Dispensing naloxone in areas
hardest hit by the opioid overdose epidemic can increase the number of
overdose reversals and the opportunity to link overdose survivors into
treatment.

###### Actions needed to improve access locally.

Examples include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Reducing insurance co-pay for patients.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Increasing provider training and education.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Targeting distribution especially in rural areas.

The Way Forward

#####  **Pharmacists and Other Healthcare Providers Can:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Monitor patients for risk of overdose, prescribe or dispense naloxone when overdose risk factors are present, and counsel patients on how to use it.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Ensure naloxone is always available in pharmacies.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Participate in and offer naloxone training and education.

##### **Health Insurers Can:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Reduce patient out-of-pocket costs.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cover naloxone prescriptions without prior approval.

##### **States and Communities Can:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Work with healthcare providers to expand naloxone access, especially in rural areas.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Promote the benefits of prescribing, dispensing, and carrying naloxone.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Create harm reduction programs and improve access to medication-assisted treatment for opioid use disorder.

##### **Everyone Can:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a naloxone prescription if  you or a loved one are taking  high-dose opioids or have a substance use disorder.

Many factors contribute to the problem.

![A pharmacist gives a patient a prescription.
](/vitalsigns/naloxone/images/naloxone-vs-pharmacy.jpg)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Most (71%) of Medicare prescriptions for naloxone required a copay compared to 42% for commercial insurance.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Primary care providers only prescribed about 2 naloxone prescriptions for every 100 high-dose opioid prescriptions.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Naloxone dispensing is 25 times greater in the highest-dispensing counties than the lowest.

Issue Details

#####  **Related Pages and Resources**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Vital Signs: Press Release - Still not enough naloxone where it's most needed [English]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Vital Signs: Press Release - Todavia no hay suficiente naloxona donde mas se necesita [Spanish]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR): Vital Signs: Pharmacy-Based Naloxone Dispensing --United States, 2012-2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Vital Signs, 2018: Vital Signs: Opioid Overdoses Treated in Emergency Departments: Identify Opportunities for Action
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Vital Signs, 2017: Opioid Prescribing: Where You Live Matters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Vital Signs, 2015: Today's Heroin Epidemic: More People at Risk, Multiple Drugs Abused
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC Opioid Overdose Website
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Opioid Basics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Data Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC's Rx Awareness Campaign
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC Guideline for Prescribing Opioids for Chronic Pain -- United States, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Healthcare Provider Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Online Training: Applying CDC's Guideline for Prescribing Opioids
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC Opioid Prescribing Guideline Mobile App 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pocket Guide: Tapering Opioids for Chronic Pain pdf icon[1.8 MB, 4 pages]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Factsheet: Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs (PDMPs) pdf icon[7.8 MB, 2 pages]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Factsheet: Nonopioid Treatments for Chronic Pain pdf icon[1.5 MB, 2 pages]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Patient Materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Resource Center

##### **Other Sites**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * U.S. Department of Health & Human Services Guidance on Naloxone Co-Prescribing pdf icon[683 KB, 2 pages]external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * U.S. Surgeon General's Advisory on Naloxone and Opioid Overdoseexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * U.S. Department of Health & Human Services Strategy for National Opioid Crisisexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA)external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Find Help & Treatment external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Naloxoneexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Buprenorphine Waiver Managementexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * National Institute on Drug Abuseexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * U.S. Food and Drug Administration - Drugs Informationexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Drug Enforcement Administration - Office of Diversion Controlexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Servicesexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Opioids: The Crisis Next Doorexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Office of National Drug Control Policyexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA): Naloxone Co-prescribing to Patients Receiving Prescription Opioids in the Medicare Part D Program, United States, 2016-2017external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Office of the U.S. Surgeon Generalexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Providers' Clinical Support Systemexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * MedlinePlus - Prescription Drug Abuseexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC) - Linking PDMPs to Health ITexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * National Alliance for Model State Drug Lawsexternal icon

##### **Science Behind the Issue**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Science Clips

**For More Information**  
1-800-CDC-INFO (232-4636)  
TTY: 1-888-232-6348  
Web: www.cdc.gov

**Centers for Disease Control and Prevention**  
1600 Clifton Road NE  
Atlanta, GA 30333  
Publication date: August 6, 2019

Page last reviewed: August 6, 2019

Content source: Office of the Associate Director for Communication

home Vital Signs

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Topics Covered
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * All CDC Vital Signs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Digital Media Tools

email_03Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Get Connected

Social_round_rss RSS _MMWR_ RSS

Social_round_rss RSS VitalSigns RSS

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Download this Fact Sheet pdf[469 KB, 2 pages]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Read the MMWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Science Clips

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

image PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM

