https://www.cdc.gov/vitalsigns/maternal-deaths/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/vitalsigns/maternal-deaths/index.html    
                Description: Preventing pregnancy-related death every step of the way.    
                Keywords: CDC,  CDC Vital Signs,  maternal deaths,  pregnancy-related deaths,  MMWR,  Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, Vital Signs    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Vital Signs

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Pregnancy-related Deaths

Minus

Related Pages

![Photo of a pregnant woman laying down and a female doctor examining her
abdomen \(belly\).](/vitalsigns/maternal-deaths/images/vs-maternal-death-
header.jpg)

Pregnancy-related deaths

Saving women's lives before, during and after delivery

![About 700 women die from pregnancy-related complications each year in the
US.](/vitalsigns/maternal-deaths/images/factoid-1-pregnancy-deaths.png)

About 700 women die from pregnancy-related complications each year in the US.

![About 3 in 5 pregnancy-related deaths could be
prevented.](/vitalsigns/maternal-deaths/images/factoid-2-pregnancy-deaths.png)

About 3 in 5 pregnancy-related deaths could be prevented.

![About 1 in 3 pregnancy-related deaths occur 1 week to 1 year after
delivery.](/vitalsigns/maternal-deaths/images/factoid-3-pregnancy-deaths.png)

About 1 in 3 pregnancy-related deaths occur 1 week to 1 year after delivery.

## Overview

Every pregnancy-related death is tragic, especially because about 60% are
preventable. Still, about 700 women die each year from complications of
pregnancy. A pregnancy-related death can happen during pregnancy, at delivery,
and even up to a year afterward (postpartum).

**For 2011-2015:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     * about 1/3 of deaths (31%) happened **during pregnancy** ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * about 1/3 (36%) happened **at delivery or in the week after** ; and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * about 1/3 (33%) happened **1 week to 1 year postpartum**.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Heart disease and stroke caused more than 1 in 3 deaths (34%). Other leading causes of death included infections and severe bleeding.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Black and American Indian/Alaska Native women were about 3 times as likely to die from a pregnancy-related cause as White women.

### Preventing pregnancy-related death every step of the way.

![Preventing pregnancy-related death every step of the way. Death can happen
up to a year after delivery: 31% of pregnancy-related deaths occur during
pregnancy, 36% occur during delivery and up to 1 week afterward, and 33% occur
1 week to 1 year after delivery.  Photo of a woman holding her
baby.](/vitalsigns/maternal-deaths/images/vs-maternal-death-infographic1.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Preventing pregnancy-related death every step of the way. Death can
happen up to a year after delivery: 31&#37; of pregnancy-related deaths occur
during pregnancy, 36&#37; occur during delivery and up to 1 week afterward,
and 33&#37; occur 1 week to 1 year after delivery.  Photo of a woman holding
her baby.](/vitalsigns/maternal-deaths/images/vs-maternal-death-
infographic1.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

View Text Description

SOURCE: CDC Vital Signs, May 2019

![Make sure pregnant women receive quality care during pregnancy and after.
During Delivery  Photo of a pregnant woman sitting in a chair with her hands
on her belly.  At Delivery Photo of a woman during delivery in a hospital bed
with a healthcare provider examining her belly.  Postpartum Photo of a
postpartum woman holding her baby while viewing a computer screen.
](/vitalsigns/maternal-deaths/images/vs-maternal-death-infographic2.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Make sure pregnant women receive quality care during pregnancy and
after.  During Delivery  Photo of a pregnant woman sitting in a chair with her
hands on her belly.  At Delivery Photo of a woman during delivery in a
hospital bed with a healthcare provider examining her belly.  Postpartum Photo
of a postpartum woman holding her baby while viewing a computer screen.
](/vitalsigns/maternal-deaths/images/vs-maternal-death-infographic2.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

View Text Description

**During Pregnancy** : Improve access to and delivery of quality prenatal
care, which includes managing chronic conditions and educating about warning
signs.

**At Delivery** : Standardize patient care, including delivering high-risk
women at hospitals with specialized providers and equipment.

**Postpartum** : Provide high-quality care for mothers up to one year after
birth, which includes communicating with patients about warning signs and
connecting to prompt follow-up care.

Problem

##### Pregnancy-related death can happen throughout pregnancy and after.

###### Every death reflects a web of missed opportunities.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Factors playing a part can include: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * access to care;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * missed or delayed diagnoses;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * not recognizing warning signs.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Most deaths are preventable, no matter when they occur.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * We can better identify and close gaps in access to quality care.

The Way Forward

#####  **Healthcare Providers Can:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Help patients manage chronic conditions.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Communicate with patients about warning signs.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Use tools to flag warning signs early so women can receive timely treatment.

##### **Hospitals and Health Systems Can:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Standardize coordination of care and response to emergencies.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Improve delivery of quality prenatal and postpartum care.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Train non-obstetric providers to consider recent pregnancy history.

##### **States and Communities Can:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Assess and coordinate delivery hospitals for risk-appropriate care.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Support review of the causes behind every maternal death.

##### **Women & Their Families Can:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Know and communicate about symptoms of complications.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Note pregnancy history any time medical care is received in the year after delivery.

Leading causes of death differ throughout pregnancy and after.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Heart disease and stroke cause most deaths overall.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Obstetric emergencies, like severe bleeding and amniotic fluid embolism (when amniotic fluid enters a mother's bloodstream), cause most deaths at delivery.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * In the week after delivery, severe bleeding, high blood pressure and infection are most common.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cardiomyopathy (weakened heart muscle) is the leading cause of deaths 1 week to 1 year after delivery.

Issue Details

#####  **Related Pages and Resources**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Vital Signs: Press Release - Pregnancy-related deaths happen before, during, and up to a year after delivery [English]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Vital Signs: Press Release - Las muertes relacionadas con el embarazo ocurren antes, durante y hasta un año despues del parto [Spanish]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * _Vital Signs_ : Pregnancy-Related Deaths, United States, 2011-2015, and Strategies for Prevention, 13 States, 2013-2017, Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pregnancy-related Deaths
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Severe Maternal Morbidity in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pregnancy Complications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Depression Among Women
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Perinatal Quality Collaboratives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC Levels of Care Assessment Tool (CDC LOCATe)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC Grand Rounds: Meeting the Challenges of Measuring and Preventing Maternal Mortality in the United States

##### **Other Sites**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Building U.S. Capacity to Review and Prevent Maternal Deathsexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Review to Actionexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * National Network of Perinatal Quality Collaborativesexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG): Eliminate Preventable Maternal Mortalityexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * ACOG Committee Opinion No. 736: Optimizing Postpartum Careexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Association of Maternal and Child Health Programs (AMCHP) - Maternal Healthexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Association of Women's Health, Obstetric and Neonatal Nurses (AWHONN): Post-birth Warning Signs Checklist pdf icon[95 KB, 1 page]external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Council on Patient Safety in Women's Health Care Patient Safety Bundlesexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Resources & Services Administration (HRSA) - Maternal Morbidity & Mortalityexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Preeclampsia Foundationexternal icon

##### **Science Behind the Issue**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Science Clips

**For More Information**  
1-800-CDC-INFO (232-4636)  
TTY: 1-888-232-6348  
Web: www.cdc.gov

**Centers for Disease Control and Prevention**  
1600 Clifton Road NE  
Atlanta, GA 30333  
Publication date: May 7, 2019

Page last reviewed: May 7, 2019

Content source: Office of the Associate Director for Communication

home Vital Signs

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Topics Covered
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * All CDC Vital Signs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Digital Media Tools

email_03Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Get Connected

Social_round_rss RSS _MMWR_ RSS

Social_round_rss RSS VitalSigns RSS

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Download this Fact Sheet [583 KB, 2 pages]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Read the MMWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Science Clips

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

image PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM

