https://emergency.cdc.gov/cerc/index.aspLink: https://emergency.cdc.gov/cerc/index.asp    
                Description: The CERC training program educates people on the principles and application of crisis and emergency risk communication when responding to a public health emergency.    
                Keywords: preparation, emergency preparedness, emergency training, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, emergency, emergencies, preparedness, response, CERC, Crisis and Emergency Risk Communication, PIOs, public information officers, training, public health emergency, communication training, emergency planning, crisis communication planning, emergency risk communication, Pandemic Influenza, spokesperson, stakeholder communication, crisis communication, issues management, risk communication, disaster communication, effective crisis and risk communication, communication lifecycle    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Emergency Preparedness and Response

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Crisis & Emergency Risk Communication (CERC)

Minus

Related Pages

![Stylized words ](/cerc/images/cerc_logo_368x147.jpg)

The right message at the right time from the right person can save lives.
CDC's Crisis and Emergency Risk Communication (CERC) draws from lessons
learned during past public health emergencies and research in the fields of
public health, psychology, and emergency risk communication. CDC's CERC
program provides trainings, tools, and resources to help health communicators,
emergency responders, and leaders of organizations communicate effectively
during emergencies. Please email cercrequest@cdc.gov with any questions or
requests for trainings or materials.

Training

![A CERC trainer explains the 6 principles of CERC during a
training.](/cerc/images/cercHomePage_Training_500x205.jpg)

The CERC program offers in-person and online trainings on Crisis and Emergency
Risk Communication.

More

Manual and Tools

![The cover of the 2014 CERC
Manual.](/cerc/images/cercHomePage_Manual_500x205.jpg)

The CERC Manual describes core crisis and emergency risk communication
principles and how they apply to each phase of a crisis. Tools are available
to prepare communication plans or use during a crisis.

More

CERC Corner

![The logo of the CERC Corner on the Emergency Partners
newsletter](/cerc/images/cercHomePage_cercCorner_500x205.jpg)

CERC Corners are articles based on content from CDC's CERC Manual and are
published biweekly in the CDC Emergency Partners' Newsletter.

More

Presentations

![A series of slides from presentations and webinars on Crisis and Emergency
Risk
Communication.](/cerc/images/cercHomePage_presentationsAndWebinars_500x205.jpg)

The CERC program offers archived presentations on specific CERC topics and how
CERC applies in different emergencies.

More

Page last reviewed: January 23, 2018

Content source: Center for Preparedness and Response (CPR)

home Crisis & Emergency Risk Communication

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Trainingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Webinarsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CERC Overview for COVID-19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Introduction to Crisis & Emergency Risk Communication
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Psychology of a Crisis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Messages and Audiences
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Community Engagement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Spokesperson
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Communication Channels
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CERC Online Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Continuing Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Manual and Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CERC Manual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CERC Templates and Tools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CERC Cornerplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Introduction to CERCplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What is CERC?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Local Response and Recovery
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Increased International Travel and Infectious Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Messaging on Emerging Infectious Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reputation Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Good vs. Bad Crisis Communication
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Crisis Communication Lifecycle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Communicating Reassurance Versus Risk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * How to Promote Action through Self-Efficacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Promote Action
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Psychology of a Crisisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Addressing Stigma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Processing Information during a Crisis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * When Emotions Run High
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Relating Messages to Risk Perceptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Dealing with Denial
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Dealing with Dread
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CERC @ Work: Take Good Care of Yourself
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * How to Handle Hopelessness and Helplessness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Acknowledge Uncertainty
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Messages & Audiencesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Dispelling Myths during a Radiation Emergency
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * First Message in a Crisis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * How Will People Judge Your Emergency Messages?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Culture and Communication
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pros and Cons of Community Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Communicating with Diverse Audiences
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Using Plain Language
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CERC @ Work: Know Your Audience
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Importance of Audience Feedback
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Crisis Communication Plansplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Managing Multiple Messengers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nine Steps in Crisis Communication Implementation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reaching At-Risk Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Spokespersonplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Qualities of an Effective Spokesperson
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Asking Instead of Answering
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Learning to Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Why Credibility is Crucial in a Crisis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Community Engagementplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Building Partnerships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Why Listening is Crucial to Communicating
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Community Engagement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Stakeholder Communication Strategies from the Zika Action Plan Summit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Media, Social Media, & Mobile Media Devicesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Zombie Talk and Preparedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Why Work with Social Media in a Crisis?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Mediaâs Role in a Crisis, Disaster, or Emergency
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Managing Misinformation in the Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Responding to Rumors and Misinformation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Presentations

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Prepare Your Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Coping with a Disaster or Traumatic Event
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Information on Specific Types of Emergencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Information for Specific Groups
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Resources for Emergency Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Training & Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Social Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What's New
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Preparation & Planning

More on Preparedness

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What CDC is Doing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Blog: Public Health Matters

![Social Media at CDC Emergency](https://emergency.cdc.gov/images/campaign-
badges/localcampaign-socialmedia.png)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM

