https://wwwn.cdc.gov/als/Link: https://wwwn.cdc.gov/als/    
                Description: None    
                Keywords: None    
                            

![Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease
Registry](TemplatePackage/images/cdcHeaderLogo.gif)Agency for Toxic Substances
and Disease Registry

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

  

## National Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) Registry  
  
---  
_*_ Required Fields  
---  
  
###  Login

|  Username: _*_ |  
---|---  
Password: _*_ |  
|  
  
* * *  
  
**Forgot your Username or Password?**  
  
|

### Join the Registry

| Join the Registry for research opportunities and/or to contribute
information to the National ALS Registry. You do not need to open an account
if you only want to learn about this registry. You can read educational
information about ALS posted on our website or link to other ALS websites on
our Links page.  
---  
  
  
  
Warning Banner  
---  
  
â¢This warning banner provides privacy and security notices consistent with
applicable federal laws, directives, and other federal guidance for accessing
this Government system, which includes (1) this computer network, (2) all
computers connected to this network, and (3) all devices and storage media
attached to this network or to a computer on this network. â¢This system is
provided for Government-authorized use only. â¢Unauthorized or improper use
of this system is prohibited and may result in disciplinary action and/or
civil and criminal penalties. â¢Personal use of social media and networking
sites on this system is limited as to not interfere with official work duties
and is subject to monitoring. â¢By using this system, you understand and
consent to the following: â¦The Government may monitor, record, and audit
your system usage, including usage of personal devices and email systems for
official duties or to conduct HHS business. Therefore, you have no reasonable
expectation of privacy regarding any communication or data transiting or
stored on this system. At any time, and for any lawful Government purpose, the
government may monitor, intercept, and search and seize any communication or
data transiting or stored on this system. â¦Any communication or data
transiting or stored on this system may be disclosed or used for any lawful
Government purpose.  
  
### File Formats Help:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * ![Adobe PDF file](TemplatePackage/images/icon_pdf.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * ![Microsoft Word file](TemplatePackage/images/icon_word.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * ![Microsoft Excel file](TemplatePackage/images/icon_excel.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * ![Microsoft PowerPoint file](TemplatePackage/images/icon_ppt.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * ![Audio/Video file](TemplatePackage/images/icon_wmv.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * ![Zip Archive file](TemplatePackage/images/icon_zip.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * ![RealPlayer file](TemplatePackage/images/icon_real.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * ![Apple Quicktime file](TemplatePackage/images/icon_qt.gif)

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?
![double arrows.](/TemplatePackage/images/btn_dblArrows.gif)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * ATSDR Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy Policy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Disclaimer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * e-Government
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Contact Us

![USA.gov: The U.S. Government's Official Web
Portal](TemplatePackage/images/logo_usagov.gif)![Department of Health and
Human Services](TemplatePackage/images/logo_dhhs.gif)

Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry, 4770 Buford Hwy NE, Atlanta,
GA 30341, USA  
Contact CDC: 800-232-4636 / TTY: 888-232-6348

![Web Analytics](https://mtrics.cdc.gov/b/ss/devcdc/1/H.21--NS/0)

![Progress](Images/progress.gif)Processing ...

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM

