https://www.cdc.gov/cdctv/diseaseandconditions/commonconditions/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/cdctv/diseaseandconditions/commonconditions/index.html    
                Description: Videos regarding common diseases and conditions. - CDC-TV    
                Keywords: disease and conditions,  centers for disease control and prevention,  arthritis,  autism,  diabetes,  fetal alcohol syndrome,  heart disease, CDC TV, Arthritis, Diabetes, Cold Common, Autism, Heart Disease, Diseases &amp; Conditions A-Z Index    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

CDC-TV

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email
                      * Syndicate

# Diseases & Conditions - Common Conditions Videos

Minus

Related Pages

![This video answers important questions about Hypothermia. The video is
silent by design and can be used in rooms with high levels of noise.
](/cdctv/images/diseaseandconditions/commonconditions/hypothermia/310988_WYNTK_Hypothermia-100x100px.jpg)

#### What You Need to Know About Hypothermia (1:36)

This video answers important questions about Hypothermia. The video is silent
by design and can be used in rooms with high levels of noise.

* * *

##### **Other versions:**

                      * Spanish (1:22)



![What you need to know about
diabetes](/cdctv/images/diseaseandconditions/lifestyle/diabetes/diabetes-100px.jpg)

#### What You Need to Know About Diabetes? (1:20)

AFM is a rare but serious syndrome that causes sudden arm or leg weakness,
mostly in children.

* * *

![Acute Flaccid Myelitis
\(AFM\)](/cdctv/images/diseaseandconditions/commonconditions/afm/AFM-100px.jpg)

#### Can you quickly recognize symptoms of acute flaccid myelitis? (:59)

AFM is a rare but serious syndrome that causes sudden arm or leg weakness,
mostly in children.

* * *

![CDC Video: A Change for Life
\(5:26\)](/cdctv/images/diseaseandconditions/commonconditions/changeforlife/thumbnail-
change-life.jpg)

#### A Change for Life (5:26)

In this video, experts and people with prediabetes talk about how type 2
diabetes can be prevented or delayed by making lifestyle changes that include
weight loss and more physical activity. People with prediabetes discuss how
group lifestyle change classes helped them learn and keep healthy habits.

* * *

![CDC Video: Arthritis Pain
Reliever](/cdctv/images/diseaseandconditions/commonconditions/arthritispain/thumbnail-
arthiritis-pain.jpg)

#### Arthritis Pain Reliever (4:17)

Physical activity is a proven way to relieve the pain and disability
associated with arthritis, but many people do not have the confidence or
knowledge about how to exercise safely. This video will help people with
arthritis learn more about the benefits of physical activity and the types and
amounts of exercise helpful for people with arthritis.

* * *

![CDC Video: Blood Sugar and
Fears](/cdctv/images/diseaseandconditions/commonconditions/bloodsugarfears/thumbnail-
blood-sugar-fears.jpg)

#### Blood Sugar and Fears (4:23)

More than 20 million people in the United States suffer from type 2 diabetes
and tens of millions more are at risk. The Blood Sugar and Fears video offers
simple steps that can prevent or delay type 2 diabetes, such as choosing
healthier foods, increasing physical activity and losing 5 to 7 percent of
body weight.

* * *

![CDC Video: The Story of
Iyal](/cdctv/images/diseaseandconditions/commonconditions/storyofiyal/thumbnail-
story-of-iyal.jpg)

#### The Story of Iyal (3:47)

A mother tells her compelling story about a family living with fetal alcohol
spectrum disorders. Every family has unique experiences, challenges and
successes. The intent is not to endorse specific interventions, but to share
one family's story and hope.

* * *

![Myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome
](/cdctv/images/diseaseandconditions/commonconditions/myalgic-
encephalomyelitis/thumbnail-Myalgic-encephalomyelitis.jpg)

#### Myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS) (:30)

The "Missing My Life" video shows a woman with ME/CFS and what her life is
like as she goes through part of her day. It shows some of the everyday events
that she misses as she manages her illness.

Related Videos

                      * The Immunization Baby Book (4:16)
                      * Baby Steps: Learn the Signs. Act Early. (4:32)
                      * Dangerous Creatures - A Visit To The CDC Insectary (5:48)
                      * Finding a Balance (4:18)
                      * Hidden Sodium (1:03)
                      * Making Health Easier: Healthy Changes Start in Preschool (3:54)
                      * Our Cultures Are Our Source of Health (9:02)
                      * Salt Matters: Preserving Choice, Protecting Health (4:30)
                      * Take 3 (:60)
                      * The Story of Folic Acid Fortification (6:37)
                      * Vital Signs - High Blood Pressure (2:22)
                      * Way to Go: Many Healthy Returns (4:00)
                      * Wes Studi: Don't Get Don't Spread (:60)
                      * Wes Studi: Seasonal Flu (:60)
                      * Wes Studi: Signs (:60)
                      * Why Surveillance Matters (:45)

Send Us Feedback

What do you think of our videos? Your feedback about CDC-TV and our videos is
very important to us. Send us a comment about our videos.

Learn more about CDC-TV

Page last reviewed: April 1, 2020

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home CDC-TV

                      * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                        * Disease Detective Camp
                        * Global Disease Detectives
                        * Why Surveillance Matters
                      * Diseases & Conditionsplus icon
                        * Cancerplus icon
                          * Be Brave
                          * No Excuses plus icon
                            * No Excuses (:60)
                            * No Excuses (:30)
                          * Screen for Lifeplus icon
                            * Screen for Life: Meryl Streep (:60)
                            * Screen for Life: Meryl Streep (:30) Version A
                            * Screen for Life: Meryl Streep (:30) Version B
                          * Your Wake-Up Call
                        * Common Conditions plus icon
                          * A Change for Life
                          * Arthritis Pain Reliever
                          * Blood Sugar and Fears
                          * Can you quickly recognize symptoms of acute flaccid myelitis?
                          * Diabetes
                          * The Story of Iyal
                          * Myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS)
                        * HIVplus icon
                          * A Need To Know
                          * HIV/AIDS 101
                          * Jamie Foxx Talks About HIV
                          * Letâs Stop HIV Togetherplus icon
                            * Letâs Stop HIV Together: Jamar Rogers
                            * Letâs Stop HIV Together: PSA
                            * Letâs Stop HIV Together: Shanaâs Story
                            * Letâs Stop HIV Together : Tommyâs Story
                          * Ludacris Talks About HIV
                        * Influenza plus icon
                          * Cover Your Coughs and Sneezes â Kids (:18)
                          * Cover Your Coughs and Sneezes â Penguin (:18)
                          * Fighting Fluplus icon
                            * Fighting Flu (3:35)
                            * Fighting Flu (:60)
                            * Fighting Flu (:30)
                          * H1N1 (Swine Flu)
                          * I Never Get The Flu
                          * Influenza Round Tableplus icon
                            * Influenza Round Table: Antiviral Drugs â 2010
                            * Influenza Round Table: Antiviral Drugs â 2009
                            * Influenza Round Table: Donât Get, Donât Spread â 2010
                            * Influenza Round Table: Donât Get, Donât Spread â 2009
                            * Influenza Round Table: Take 3 â 2010
                            * Influenza Round Table: Take 3 â 2009
                            * Influenza Round Table: Warning Signs â 2010
                            * Influenza Round Table: Warning Signs â 2009
                          * Mixing TamifluÂ® with Sweet Liquids
                          * Wes Studi: Antiviralsplus icon
                            * Wes Studi: Antivirals (:60)
                            * Wes Studi: Antivirals (:30)
                          * Why Flu Vaccination Matters
                        * Lifestyleplus icon
                          * Healthy Swimming Is No Accident
                          * High Blood Pressure
                          * No Antibiotics Please
                          * Parents Want To Do Whatâ²s Best
                          * The Obesity Epidemic
                        * Outbreaksplus icon
                          * CDC: Protecting Americans through Global Health
                          * Ebola and Contact Tracing
                          * Foodborne Outbreaks
                          * Global Disease Detectives in Kibera
                          * Preventing Norovirus
                          * Responding to Outbreaks
                          * The Road to Zero
                          * The Trouble with Tiny Turtles
                          * What is Rat Lungworm (Angiostrongylus) Disease?
                          * Uganda Python Cave
                          * Zika Virus 101
                          * Zika Virus Prevention: Puerto Ricoplus icon
                            * Zika Virus Prevention: Summary for General Public in Puerto Rico (2:22)
                            * Zika Virus Prevention for Puerto Rico (:30)
                        * Vaccinationplus icon
                          * A Key Piece of the Puzzle: Vaccinations
                          * Adult Vaccinesplus icon
                            * Adult Vaccines (3:41)
                            * Adult Vaccines (3:01)
                          * Childhood Immunizations
                          * Get Vaccinated and Prevent Measles (1:01)
                          * H1N1 Vaccine Questions
                          * Have You Heard?
                          * Protecting Babies with Vaccination
                          * Protect Yourself, Protect Your Baby
                          * VSI: Vaccine Scene Investigation
                          * What You Need To Know About Measles Vaccination
                      * Emergency Preparedness & Responseplus icon
                        * A New Era of Preparedness
                        * Emergency Operations Center (EOC) 101
                        * Emergency Operations Center 
                        * CDC Laboratory Science: Mission Critical
                        * Saving Lives, Protecting People
                      * Environmental Healthplus icon
                        * CDC Tracking Network
                        * Choose Safe Places for Early Care and Education
                        * Health Begins at Home
                        * Noise is All Around You
                        * Smoke-free Multiunit Housing
                        * The Quiet Killer
                      * Healthy Livingplus icon
                        * Antibiotic Resistance
                        * Healthy Eatingplus icon
                          * A Grocery Storeâs Healthy Options 
                          * A Plate Full of Color
                          * Finding a Balance
                          * Healthy Corner Stores
                          * Healthy Snacking in Philadelphia, PA
                          * Hidden Sodium
                          * Salt Mattersplus icon
                            * Salt Matters: Preserving Choice, Protecting Health (4:30)
                            * Salt Matters: Preserving Choice, Protecting Health (2:00)
                          * Tricky Treats
                        * Hygieneplus icon
                          * Fight Germs. Wash Your Hands!
                          * Go with the Flow
                          * Hand Hygiene Saves Lives
                          * Wash Your Hands
                          * What You Need To Know About Handwashing
                        * Physical Activityplus icon
                          * Knees Lifted High
                          * Making Health Easier: Active Living in Philadelphia, PA
                      * Injury, Violence & Safetyplus icon
                        * A Time To Act
                        * Binge Drinking
                        * Break the Silence: Stop the Violence
                        * Injury Prevention Research
                        * In the Swim of Things
                        * What You Need to Know about Permethrin
                        * Safe Teen Drivers
                      * Life Stages & Populationsplus icon
                        * A Killer in Indian Country
                        * Baby Steps: Learn the Signs. Act Early.
                        * Dangerous Creatures
                        * Healthy Changes Start in Preschool
                        * Our Cultures Are Our Source of Healthplus icon
                          * Our Cultures Are Our Source of Health (9:02)
                          * Our Cultures Are Our Source of Health (:60)
                          * Our Cultures Are Our Source of Health (:30)
                        * Take 3
                        * Teen Pregnancy
                        * The Immunization Baby Book
                        * The Story of Folic Acid Fortification 
                        * Through the Eyes of the Eagle
                        * Wes Studi: Donât Get Donât Spread
                        * Wes Studi: Seasonal Flu
                        * Wes Studi: Signsplus icon
                          * Wes Studi: Signs (:60)
                          * Wes Studi: Signs (:30)
                      * Travelerâs Healthplus icon
                        * Way to Goplus icon
                          * Way to Go: Many Healthy Returns (4:00)
                          * Way to Go: Passport To Health (4:17)
                      * Vital Signsplus icon
                        * Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACEs)
                        * High Blood Pressure
                        * How to end HIV transmission in the United States
                        * Naloxone
                        * Vaccinating Pregnant Women
                      * Spanishplus icon
                        * Diseases & Conditionsplus icon
                          * CÃºbrete la nariz y la boca al toser o estornudar (pingÃ¼ino)
                          * CÃºbrete la nariz y la boca al toser o estornudar (niÃ±os)
                          * Diabetes
                          * Encefalomielitis miÃ¡lgica y el SÃ­ndrome de Fatiga CrÃ³nica (SFC/EM)
                          * Hablemos de la Influenza
                          * Influenzaplus icon
                            * Influenza (:30)
                            * Influenza (:60)
                          * No Hay Excusas 
                          * Permetrina
                          * PresiÃ³n Arterial Alta
                          * PrevenciÃ³n del virus del Zika para Puerto Rico
                          * Resistencia a los AntibiÃ³ticos
                          * plus icon
                            * PrevenciÃ³n del virus del Zika: Resumen para el pÃºblico en general de Puerto Rico (2:36)
                            * PrevenciÃ³n del virus del Zika para Puerto Rico (:30)
                          * Un cambio para toda la vida
                          * VacÃºnese y prevenga el sarampiÃ³n
                          * Vacuna Contra el SarampiÃ³n
                        * Emergency Preparedness & Responseplus icon
                          * Centro de Operaciones de Emergencia (COE)
                        * Environmental Healthplus icon
                          * Elija lugares seguros para el cuidado y la educaciÃ³n temprana
                          * Por quÃ© son tan importantes los servicios de salud ambiental
                        * Healthy Livingplus icon
                          * Acabe con los microbios. Â¡LÃ¡vese las manos!
                          * Higiene De Las Manos Salva Vidas
                          * Lavado de Manos
                        * Life Stages & Populationsplus icon
                          * Hacer HÃ¡bitos Saludables MÃ¡s FÃ¡cil en GuarderÃ­as Infantiles
                        * Recursos Sobre Violenciaplus icon
                          * Â¿QuÃ© son el abuso y la negligencia infantil?
                          * Â¿QuÃ© es el suicidio?
                          * Â¿QuÃ© es la violencia de pareja Ã­ntima?
                          * Â¿QuÃ© es la violencia juvenil?
                          * Â¿QuÃ© es la violencia sexual?
                        * Vital Signsplus icon
                          * Vital Signs â PresiÃ³n Arterial Alta
                      * Other Languagesplus icon
                        * Arabicplus icon
                          * Ø§Ø­ØµÙ Ø¹ÙÙ Ø§ÙØªØ·Ø¹ÙÙ ÙØªØ¬ÙØ¨ Ø§ÙØ­ØµØ¨Ø©
                        * French

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

## About CDC-TV

CDC-TV videos cover a variety of health, safety and preparedness topics and
include closed-captioning. Videos are prepared for different audiences
including, children, parents, and public health professionals.

More >

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                      * About CDC
                      * Jobs
                      * Funding
                      * Policies
                      * File Viewers & Players

                      * Privacy
                      * FOIA
                      * No Fear Act
                      * OIG
                      * Nondiscrimination
                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * Youtube
                      * Instagram
  

                      * Syndicate
                      * CDC TV
                      * RSS
                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

