https://www.cdc.gov/ncird/div/flu/flu-bios.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/ncird/div/flu/flu-bios.html    
                Description: None    
                Keywords: NCIRD, Influenza, Influenza division, Influenza Office of the Director, Office of the Director and Branch Chief Bios, Branch Chief Bios,Influenza Division (ID), leadership bios, flu, flu bios    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate

# CDC Influenza Division

Minus

Related Pages

## Office of the Director and Branch Chief Bios

![Daniel B. Jernigan, M.D., M.P.H.](/ncird/images/daniel-jernigan.jpg)

**Daniel B. Jernigan, M.D., M.P.H.** , is the Director of the Influenza
Division in the National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases
(NCIRD) at CDC. Prior to his appointment, Dr. Jernigan served as Deputy
Director of the Influenza Division from 2006 to 2014. He is a captain in the
United States Public Health Service, and serves as the Senior Medical Officer
and Senior Public Health Service officer for the Influenza Division. As
Director, he is responsible for oversight and direction of approximately 320
staff members working to reduce the global burden of disease and death due to
seasonal, animal-associated, and pandemic influenza.

Dr. Jernigan received an undergraduate degree from Duke University, a Doctor
of Medicine from Baylor College of Medicine, and a Master of Public Health
from the University of Texas. He is board-certified in Internal Medicine and
has completed an additional residency in Preventive Medicine.

Dr. Jernigan joined the CDC's Epidemic Intelligence Service in 1994, working
in the Respiratory Diseases Branch on the prevention and control of bacterial
respiratory pathogens, including _Streptococcus pneumonia_ , Group A
_Streptococcus_ , and _Legionella_. In 1996, he began serving on assignment
from NCIRD to the Washington State Health Department as a medical
epidemiologist and coordinator of national initiatives to improve surveillance
for emerging infectious diseases. Dr. Jernigan became the chief of the
Epidemiology Section for CDC's Division of Healthcare Quality Promotion (DHQP)
in 2001. In that role, he supervised numerous investigations and initiatives
to characterize various hospital-acquired, device-associated, and
antimicrobial-resistant pathogen issues. In 2006, Dr. Jernigan joined the
Influenza Division as Deputy Director.

Dr. Jernigan has authored peer-reviewed articles and book chapters on various
emerging infectious diseases topics, and has supervised outbreak
investigations of viral, bacterial, and fungal infections associated with
emerging and antimicrobial-resistant pathogens. He has led epidemiology and
surveillance teams for national and international responses, including
bioterrorism-related anthrax, the emergence of West Nile virus, SARS, the 2009
H1N1 pandemic influenza, the Ebola response and public health management
following natural disasters. During the 2009 H1N1 influenza pandemic, Dr.
Jernigan served as the CDC lead for all domestic and international
epidemiology and laboratory activities for the U.S. government's response. In
2015, Dr. Jernigan served as the Incident Commander for the CDC's global Ebola
response.

 Top of Page

![Jacqueline Katz, Ph.D.](/ncird/images/jacqueline-katz.jpg)

**Jacqueline Katz, Ph.D.** currently serves as the deputy director of the
Influenza Division. Dr. Katz earned her Bachelor of Science degree in
Microbiology and Biochemistry and her Doctoral degree in Microbiology from the
University of Melbourne, Australia. After completing her postdoctoral training
in influenza virology, she worked as an assistant member of the Department of
Virology and Molecular Biology at St. Jude's Children's Research Hospital in
Memphis, Tennessee. Dr. Katz joined the CDC in 1992 as chief of the Immunology
and Viral Pathogenesis Section in the Influenza Branch within the Division of
Viral and Rickettsial Diseases.

Dr. Katz was appointed chief of the Immunology and Pathogenesis Branch of the
CDC's Influenza Division in 2006. Under her leadership, the Branch conducted
research on the pathogenesis, immunity and transmission of seasonal and
pandemic and novel influenza viruses and received three Charles C. Shepard
Science Awards for excellence in laboratory methods publications.

During the 2009 H1N1 pandemic, Dr. Katz and her team conducted serologic
studies, provided laboratory support for seroepidemiologic investigations and
supplied technical support to public health partners. Using existing models
systems, her team studied the properties of virulence (disease severity) and
transmissibility of pandemic 2009 H1N1 viruses in comparison to seasonal
viruses. This research provided a platform for the ongoing assessment of
multiple preventive and treatment strategies against pandemic 2009 H1N1
infection.

In addition to her role at the CDC, Dr. Katz has an adjunct appointment at
Atlanta's Emory University in the Departments of Microbiology and Immunology,
and is an adjunct member of the graduate faculty in the Immunology and
Molecular Pathogenesis Program of the Laney Graduate School, Division of
Biological and Biomedical Sciences. She also serves as an associate editor for
the International Society for Influenza and Other Respiratory Virus Diseases
and is a deputy co-chair of the International Society of Influenza and other
Respiratory Viruses (isirv). Dr. Katz's work is documented in more than 290
peer-reviewed research articles, reviews and book chapters. In late 2014 Dr.
Katz was named the director of the Atlanta World Health Organization (WHO)
Collaborating Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Control of Influenza.
At the same time, she became acting deputy director for the Influenza
Division. She served as acting director intermittently during 2014-2015.

 Top of Page

![Alicia Fry, M.D., M.P.H.](/ncird/images/alicia-fry.jpg)

**Alicia M. Fry M.D., M.P.H.** , is currently the chief of the Epidemiology
and Prevention Branch. Dr. Fry is a captain in the U.S. Public Health Service.
The EPB branch is responsible for conducting influenza surveillance,
determining influenza disease burden, providing evidence on the effects of
influenza vaccine and antiviral agents, vaccine and antiviral use guidance and
policies, and outbreak investigations for seasonal influenza viruses, novel
influenza A viruses, and pandemics. The branch has both domestic and
international activities.

Dr. Fry earned her Doctorate of Medicine from the University of Cincinnati,
College of Medicine in Ohio, and trained in Internal Medicine at Johns Hopkins
Hospital in Baltimore and Infectious Diseases at University of California, San
Francisco.  She has a Master of Public Health from the University of
California, Berkeley.

Dr. Fry joined the CDC's Epidemic Intelligence Service in 1999, working in the
Respiratory Diseases Branch, Division of Bacterial and Mycotic Diseases.  She
worked as a medical officer in the International Tuberculosis Activities
Branch, Divisions of Tuberculosis Elimination; the Outbreak team in the
Foodborne and Diarrheal Diseases Branch, Division of Mycotic and Bacterial
Diseases; and was team lead for the Respiratory and Enterovirus team, Division
of Viral Diseases.  She joined the Influenza Division in 2006 and became a
team lead in 2012 and Branch chief in 2017.

Dr. Fry's work is documented in over 180 peer-reviewed research articles,
reviews and book chapters.

Top of Page

![Joseph Bresee, M.D.](/ncird/images/joseph-bresee.jpg)

**Joseph Bresee, M.D., FAAP** , is currently Influenza Division's Associate
Director of Global Health Affairs. Dr. Bresee is a captain in the U.S. Public
Health Service. He also serves as co-Director of the Partnership for Influenza
Vaccine Introduction, based at the Task Force for Global Health, which seeks
to accelerate the use of flu vaccines in low and middle-income countries
through developing public-private partnerships.

Dr. Bresee trained at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, and then
completed his Pediatric Residency at Children's Hospital and Medical Center at
the University of Washington in Seattle. Dr. Bresee joined CDC in 1993 as an
Epidemic Intelligence Service (EIS) officer in the Influenza Branch. From 1995
to 2005, Dr. Bresee first served as a staff epidemiologist and medical
officer, specializing in viral gastrointestinal infections and respiratory
infections. Subsequently, he was promoted to Epidemiology Team Lead. His
research and public health activities focused on rotavirus disease and
rotavirus vaccines, and he worked to ensure that rotavirus vaccines were
available for children in both the U.S. as well as those living in developing
countries.

Dr. Bresee has authored more than 200 peer-reviewed papers and textbook
chapters.

 Top of Page

![Terrence M. Tumpey, Ph.D.](/ncird/images/terrence-tumpey.jpg)

**Terrence M. Tumpey, Ph.D.** , serves as the chief of the Immunology and
Pathogenesis Branch of the CDC's Influenza Division. The Immunology and
Pathogenesis Branch is internationally renowned for their research on the
pathogenesis, immunity and transmission of seasonal and pandemic influenza
viruses, specifically in the area of human infection with novel influenza
viruses of animal origin. The Branch also provides laboratory support for
sero-epidemiological investigations of influenza infections in humans.

Dr. Tumpey earned his Bachelor of Arts degree in biology from the University
of Minnesota and his Ph.D. in Microbiology/Immunology from the University of
South Alabama School Of Medicine in Mobile, Alabama. He was a recipient of the
American Society for Microbiology (ASM) Postdoctoral Fellowship award and
conducted his postdoctoral training in the Influenza Branch. He later served
the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) as a Microbiologist at the Southeast
Poultry Research Laboratory in Athens, Georgia. Dr. Tumpey rejoined the CDC in
2003 and became the Team Leader of Pathogenesis, a position that required him
to supervise eight Microbiologists.

Dr. Tumpey's interests lie in elucidating the molecular determinants of
virulence and transmission of influenza viruses, including pandemic influenza
subtypes. He also contributes to the evaluation of influenza vaccines in a
pre-clinical setting. In addition to his role at the CDC, Dr. Tumpey has an
adjunct appointment at Atlanta's Emory University in the Department of
Microbiology and Molecular Genetics. His research on pathogenesis and immunity
during the last 28 years is documented in over 200 total peer-reviewed
publications. In 2006, he was honored with the Lancet Award for the top
scientific paper of 2005 presented by Lancet. He also received the 2006 and
2008 Charles C. Shepard Awards for Outstanding Research Papers. In 2007, Dr.
Tumpey was inducted into the University of Minnesota, Duluth Academy of
Science and Engineering and he received the Distinguished Alumni Award
presented by the University of South Alabama.

 Top of Page

![Dr. David Wentworth](/ncird/images/david-wentworth.jpg)

**Dr. David Wentworth** currently serves as Chief of the Virology,
Surveillance, and Diagnosis Branch (VSDB) of the CDC Influenza Division. Dr.
Wentworth received a B.S. in Poultry Science, an M.S. in Veterinary Medicine,
and a Ph.D. in Virology at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, where he
specialized in the study of influenza viruses. He studied coronaviruses as a
postdoctoral fellow, and later as an Instructor in the Department of
Microbiology at the University of Colorado Health Sciences Center in Denver.

As Chief of VSDB, Dr. Wentworth leads the Influenza Division's efforts to
improve global influenza virus control, prevention, pandemic preparedness and
response. VSDB's work involves conducting comprehensive antigenic, phenotypic,
genetic, and evolutionary characterization of human and animal influenza
viruses. Additionally, VSDB's influenza virus efforts include risk assessment
of novel viruses, antiviral sensitivity testing, developing diagnostic tests
and reagents for national and international use, and training laboratories to
perform viral testing in support of the WHO Global Influenza Surveillance and
Response System. The data generated and analyzed by VSDB is used to guide
vaccine virus selection and the branch generates candidate vaccine viruses for
the production of vaccines by manufacturers.

Prior to joining CDC in 2014, Dr. Wentworth was Director of Viral Programs at
the J. Craig Venter Institute (JCVI) from 2011 to 2014. His studies focused on
interspecies transmission, pathogenesis, viral evolution and vaccine
development using a variety of approaches. He directed an NIH/NIAID sponsored
viral genome sequencing center at JCVI and also led many other viral genomics
projects, including rotavirus, paramyxovirus and filovirus. Dr. Wentworth was
the Director of the Influenza Virus and Coronavirus Pathogenesis laboratory at
the Wadsworth Center, NYSDOH, and an Assistant Professor at the State
University of New York-Albany from 2002 to 2011, where his laboratory studied
interspecies transmission of influenza viruses and SARS-Coronavirus, genomic
technologies, and experimental vaccine approaches.

He has conducted virological research since 1990 and published over 90 papers
and book chapters. His studies have focused on understanding viral evolution,
zoonosis, improving molecular virology techniques, identifying molecular
determinants that affect the transmission or pathogenesis of viruses,
genomics, and combining this information with various bioinformatics
approaches to improve vaccines and/or therapeutics to combat these pathogens.

 Top of Page

![Mark Thompson](/ncird/images/mark-thompson.jpg)

**Mark Thompson, Ph.D.** currently serves as an Epidemiologist and the Deputy
Branch Chief of Science in the Epidemiology and Prevention Branch of CDC's
Influenza Division.

Dr. Thompson received his undergraduate degree from Emory University and his
doctorate in clinical and community psychology at Indiana University. He also
completed a National Institutes of Health Fellowship in Measurement and
Statistics and a Post-Doctoral Fellowship in Integrated Geriatric Healthcare
at Stanford University and the Palo Alto Veterans Affairs Medical Center.

Since joining the Influenza Division in 2009, Dr. Thompson has served as
Principal Investigator (PI) on multi-country investigations of influenza
burden, immunogenicity, and vaccine effectiveness (VE), including studies
focused on pregnant women, infants, older adults, and healthcare personnel.
Dr. Thompson previously served as PI for the US Flu VE Network. Prior to
joining CDC, Dr. Thompson worked at Kaiser Permanente Northern California
where he led clinical practice guideline initiatives and served as Program
Director for Preventive Care for the Department of Quality and Utilization. He
has also spent time in the private sector developing information technologies
and working with large employers (including Ford, General Motors, and AT&T) to
improve disease management and preventive care for their employees.

Dr. Thompson has published over 100 scientific articles in peer-reviewed
journals. His current research interests include explaining heterogeneity in
influenza vaccine response and effectiveness, and identifying ways to optimize
the preventive benefit of seasonal influenza vaccines, including the expanded
use of enhanced vaccines.

 Top of Page

Page last reviewed: February 2, 2016

Content source: National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases

home NCIRD Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * NCIRD Overviewplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * NCIRD Web Sites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Contact Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Divisions and Branchesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Bacterial Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Influenzaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Influenza Bios
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * More Influenza Organization Info
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Viral Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Immunization Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Grants/Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * NCIRD Surveillanceplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * HPV-IMPACT Surveillance Areas and Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * HPV-IMPACT Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * References and Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * NCIRD Specific Video & Audio PSAsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Influenza Vaccine Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Spanish Vaccine Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Teen Vaccine Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Childhood Vaccine Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Radio PSAs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Employment

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM

