https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/preparing/treatment-centers.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/healthcare-us/preparing/treatment-centers.html    
                Description: This document is to clarify the specific elements of hospital readiness for hospitals designated to serve as Ebola treatment centers during the U.S. domestic response to the Ebola outbreak    
                Keywords: Ebola,  Ebola outbreak,  Guinea,  Ebola virus disease,  hospital,  ebola care,  ebola treatment,  prepare treatment center, Viral Hemorrhagic Fevers VHF, Ebola Virus Disease    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Ebola (Ebola Virus Disease)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate

# Interim Guidance for Preparing Ebola Treatment Centers

Minus

Related Pages

Page Summary

 **Who this is for** : State and local health departments and acute care
hospitals designated as Ebola treatment centers.

**What this is for** : Guidance to assist state and local health departments
and acute care hospitals as they develop preparedness plans to serve as Ebola
treatment centers.

**How this relates to other guidance documents/purpose** : This guidance is
intended to inform efforts by state and local health departments and
healthcare facilities to prepare Ebola treatment centers, and includes a
summary of the capability elements needed for those hospitals. Context for
this guidance document is provided in CDC's Interim Guidance for U.S. Hospital
Preparedness for Patients Under Investigation (PUIs) or Patients with
Confirmed Ebola Virus Disease: A Framework for a Tiered Approach. In addition,
this guidance complements two other specific CDC guidance documents: Interim
Guidance for Preparing Ebola Assessment Hospitals and Interim Guidance for
Preparing Frontline Healthcare Facilities for Patients Under Investigation
(PUIs) for Ebola Virus Disease.

## Key Points

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1. Ebola treatment centers are prepared to provide comprehensive care to people diagnosed with Ebola virus disease (EVD) for the duration of a patient's illness.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2. Designation as an Ebola treatment center will be a decision made between state and local health authorities and the hospital administration, informed by the results of a CDC site visit conducted by an interdisciplinary team of subject matter experts.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3. Decisions to receive a patient with EVD should be informed by discussions with public health authorities and referring physicians, depending on the status of the patient.

Ebola treatment centers that provide comprehensive care to people diagnosed
with EVD need specific competencies and resources. The purpose of this
document is to clarify the specific elements of hospital readiness for
hospitals designated to serve as Ebola treatment centers during the U.S.
domestic response to the Ebola outbreak. The decision to designate a facility
as an Ebola treatment center should be collaboratively made between the state
and local health authorities and the hospital administration. This decision
will be informed by the results of a CDC site visit conducted by an
interdisciplinary team of subject matter experts. Ideally, the site visit
should occur once a facility has made preparations to accept patients with
EVD, based on the criteria outlined below. During the site visit, the team
assesses a hospital's ability to meet minimum capabilities in each of the
domains outlined in the table below. If critical gaps are identified, CDC will
provide technical assistance to address these gaps and regular follow-up to
the facility and to state and local health department authorities to help
ensure the facility is capable of safely treating a patient with EVD. CDC and
HHS will facilitate ongoing technical assistance and clinical consultation by
facilities with recent experience caring for patients with EVD as needed.
Hospital leaders, state and local health officials (or designees), and the
site visit team members will determine the extent to which the capabilities
for readiness have been adequately demonstrated. Other considerations include
the effect on the hospital's ability to provide other services while caring
for patients with EVD.

Decisions to receive a patient with EVD should be informed by discussions with
public health authorities and referring physicians, depending on the status of
the patient. In addition, CDC is available 24/7 for consultation to treatment
centers and state and local health departments by calling the CDC Emergency
Operations Center at 770-488-7100 or via email at eocreport@cdc.gov.

The following table, based on current knowledge, summarizes the capabilities
that Ebola treatment centers need to safely treat patients with EVD throughout
the continuum of their illness. All Ebola treatment centers should conduct
practice drills and correct any identified gaps.

Treatment Center Capabilities Ebola Treatment Center Capability | Capability
Description | Minimum Capability in Place? Y/N1  
---|---|---  
Facility Infrastructure- Patient Room(s) | Hospital has a private room with
in-room dedicated bathroom or covered bedside commode, is equipped with
dedicated patient-care equipment and has available separate areas immediately
adjacent to patient room: one for putting on (donning) of personal protective
equipment (PPE) and one for removing (doffing) of PPE. These areas must be
large enough to allow a trained observer to safely and effectively supervise
donning and doffing of PPE. |  
Patient Transportation | The state and local public health agency, emergency
medical services provider(s), and the hospital have collaborated on the
development of interfacility transportation plans that include identification
of transport provider(s) with adequate training and PPE to safely transport a
patient. Appropriate plans are in place for safe intrafacility patient
transfer from ambulance entrance to treatment unit. |  
Laboratory | Laboratory procedures/protocols, dedicated space, if possible,
possible point-of-care testing, equipment, staffing, reagents, training, and
specimen transport are in place. See CDC's Interim Guidance for Specimen
Collection, Transport, Testing, and Submission for People Under Investigation
(PUIs) for Ebola Virus Disease (EVD). |  
Staffing | Readiness plans include input from a multidisciplinary team of all
potentially affected facility departments, including clinical and nonclinical
departments, and staff.

Staffing plans have been developed to manage several weeks of clinical care.
Staffing includes dedicated critical care nurses, physicians, environmental
services, infection control practitioners, laboratory staff, and respiratory
services personnel designed to minimize the number of staff with direct
patient contact.

The facility has a process for continuous staff input from those who may or
may not be directly involved in care of patients with EVD, including from
employee unions, and has addressed employee safety questions and concerns.

|  
Training | A limited number of staff should have direct contact with patients.
All staff that will be involved in patient care or supporting patient care
have been appropriately trained for their role.

Staff members who are involved in patient care have demonstrated proficiency
in donning and doffing of PPE, proper waste management, infection control, and
safe transport of lab specimens.

Ongoing training program is in place and breaches in infection control are
addressed through retraining.

Teams have conducted a functional exercise of core processes.

|  
PPE | Given current PPE shortages, hospitals may not be able to procure in
advance the amount of PPE needed for the time to care for a patient with EVD.
Therefore, at a minimum, to be ready to accept and care for patients with EVD,
hospitals will need sufficient PPE for Ebola for at least 7 days. If
hospitalization is anticipated to exceed 7 days, state and local health
authorities, in collaboration with CDC, may provide or facilitate the
procurement of additional PPE supplies. Staff who are involved in patient care
or supporting patient care have successfully drilled and demonstrated
proficiency on donning/doffing.

The overall safe care of patients with EVD in a facility must be overseen by
an onsite manager at all times.

Each step of every PPE donning/doffing procedure must be supervised by a
trained observer to ensure proper completion of established PPE protocols.

Additional information regarding PPE supplies and how to increase access to
PPE is available online.

|  
Waste Management | Hospital should have secured the services of a waste
management vendor capable of managing and transporting Category A infectious
substances and have appropriate containers and procedures for the safe
temporary storage of Category A infectious substances.

Staff are trained in the correct use of PPE and are trained in the proper
handling and storage of Category A infectious substances at the facility.

If a vendor capable of transporting Category A infectious substances has not
been arranged, hospitals may consider sequestering medical waste until the
patient's Ebola test result becomes known. At that time, if the patient is
confirmed to have EVD, arrangements must be made with a vendor capable of
managing for the waste as a Category A infectious substance; if the patient is
ruled out for EVD, waste can be handled according to routine procedures in
compliance with local waste management ordinances.

For more information, see: Interim Guidance for Environmental Infection
Control in Hospitals for Ebola Virus.

|  
Worker Safety | Worker safety programs and policies are in place. The hospital
is in compliance with all federal or state occupational safety and health
standards applicable to reducing employee exposure to the Ebola virus. |  
Environmental Services | Hospital has a program in place to clean and
disinfect patient care areas and equipment, including use of an Environmental
Protection Agency-registered hospital disinfectant with a label claim of
potency at least equivalent to that for a nonenveloped virus, such as
norovirus, rotavirus, adenovirus, and poliovirus.

Hospital has staff trained in correct cleaning and disinfection of the
environment, safe practices, and correct use of PPE; and cleaning staff are
directly supervised during all cleaning and disinfection.

|  
Clinical Competency | Staff members who will be involved in managing the
patient are familiar with the clinical protocols for management of patients
with EVD and have access to consultation from experienced clinical EVD
specialists. For more information, see Ebola Treatment. |  
Operations Coordination | The hospital has a practiced emergency management
structure and a plan and methods for routinely communicating with relevant
local and state public health agencies, emergency management authorities, its
healthcare coalition (if appropriate), and the hospital's employees, patients,
and community to ensure coordination of the response and communication
regarding any persons under investigation for EVD and patients being treated
for EVD in the facility. |  
State/Hospital selection as an Ebola treatment center | The hospital and the
state public health department, as the hospital's regulatory authority, have
agreed that the facility is ready to serve as an Ebola treatment center. |  
  
Show More

1 Minimum capability can be considered adequate if all elements in the
capability description are sufficiently met.

Page last reviewed: January 28, 2015

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Healthcare
Quality Promotion (DHQP)

home Ebola (Ebola Virus Disease)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What is Ebola Virus Disease?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * History of Ebola Virus Diseaseplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Years of Ebola Virus Disease Outbreaks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ebola Virus Disease Distribution Map: Cases of Ebola Virus Disease in Africa Since 1976
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2014-2016 Ebola Outbreak in West Africa plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Cost of the Ebola Epidemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2014-2016 Ebola Outbreak Distribution in West Africa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Case Counts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2014 Ebola Outbreak in West Africa Epidemic Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Signs and Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Prevention and Vaccineplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Handwashing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Survivors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Outbreaksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2018 Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congoplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Whatâs New
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What CDC is Doing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ebola By The Numbers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo Ebola Outbreak Map
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ebola Communication and Awareness Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2018 Democratic Republic of Congo, Bikoroplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Map of Ebola-Affected Health Zones in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2017 Democratic Republic of the Congo, Bas UÃ©lÃ© District
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2014 Ebola Outbreak in Democratic Republic of the Congo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Outbreak Preparedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Outbreak Response Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Itâs not over until itâs over
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Long flights, long days mark vaccine campaign
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Roads to Uganda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * How community feedback shapes the Ebola response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ebola outbreak becomes a class act for EIS officers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * In the shadow of the volcano
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Congo-born CDC photographer rooting for Ebola responders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fighting Ebola on familiar ground
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Thereâs no silver bullet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Strength In Numbers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Responding to a case of Ebola in Goma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fighting Ebola: Every day is a Monday
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Protecting the Health of Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Collaborating across Time Zones
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Being Creative in Goma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Crunching the Numbers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Supporting the Laboratory in Uganda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Supporting the Ministry of Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Protecting Ugandaâs Border
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Watching DRCâs Border
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * For Cliniciansplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ebola Virus Disease for Cliniciansplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Infection Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Acute Hemodialysis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pregnant Women
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Handling Human Remains
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Neonatal Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Evaluating Patientsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Case Definition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Think Ebola
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FAQs: Screening for Ebola Virus Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Discharging Persons Under Investigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Evaluating Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Management of Survivors of Ebola Virus Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Messages for the Care of Survivors of Ebola
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cleaning and Disinfectingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Hospital Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Waste Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Survivability of Ebola Virus in Medical Waste
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Handling Ebola-Associated Waste
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Emergency Services plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Emergency Department Guidance 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Emergency Department Preparedness Training 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * EMS Systems and 9-1-1 Answering Points 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Air Medical Transport SOP 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Transport of Pediatric Patients 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Interfacility Transport Guidance plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Patient Handoff SOP 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Air-to-Ground Patient Handoff SOP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ambulance Decontamination 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Outpatient Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Non US Healthcare Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventing Injury from Injections and Sharps in Non-U.S. General Healthcare Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Hand Hygiene in Non-U.S. General Healthcare Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Rationale and Considerations for Chlorine Use in Infection Control for Non- U.S. General Healthcare Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Laboratory Testingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Specimen Collection, Transport, and Submission 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Packing and Shipping Specimens 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Managing and Testing Routine Clinical Specimens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Non-CDC Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * For Public Health Plannersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Top 10 Ebola Response Planning Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Hospital Preparednessplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preparing Frontline Healthcare Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preparing Ebola Assessment Hospitals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preparing Ebola Treatment Centers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidance for Confirmed Ebola Patients or Clinically Unstable PUIs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidance for Clinically Stable PUIs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ebola PPE Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * PPE Supply Considerations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * PPE Calculator
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cleaning and Decontaminationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidance for the U.S. Residence Decontamination for Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) and Removal of Contaminated Waste
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidance for Handling Untreated Sewage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FAQs: Interim Guidance for Handling Untreated Sewage from Suspected or Confirmed Individuals with Ebola in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidance for Cleaning, Disinfection, and Waste Disposal in Commercial Passenger Aircraft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Notes on the Interim U.S. Guidance for Monitoring and Movement of Persons with Potential Ebola Virus Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Communication Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Audio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Infographics & Illustrations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Factsheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Virus Ecology Graphic

![      illustration of colorful DNA strand behind the text - CDC uses next-
generation sequencing to identify hemorrhagic fever viruses in
bats](/amd/images/amd-badges/amd-initiative-badge-filovirus.jpg)

![MMWR Ebola Reports](/vhf/ebola/images/mmwr-badge.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM

