https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/clinicians/evd/acute-hemodialysis.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/clinicians/evd/acute-hemodialysis.html    
                Description: Recommendations to help hospital-based dialysis providers safely perform renal replacement therapy (hemodialysis) in patients with Ebola Virus Disease (EVD).    
                Keywords: Ebola,  Ebola outbreak,  Guinea,  Ebola Hemorrhagic Fever,  Safe Management of Patients,  dialysis providers,  patients with Ebola,  Recommendations hospital, Viral Hemorrhagic Fevers VHF, Ebola Virus Disease    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Ebola (Ebola Virus Disease)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate

# Recommendations for Safely Performing Acute Hemodialysis in Patients with
Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) in U.S. Hospitals

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Managing EVD in Hospital Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Patient Placement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Establishing Vascular Access for Dialysis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Healthcare Personnel Movement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * PPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Dedicated Equipment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Effluent Disposal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Machine Selection and Management

Page Summary

 **Who this is for** : Hospital-based dialysis providers.

**What this is for** : Recommendations to help hospital-based dialysis
providers safely perform renal replacement therapy (hemodialysis) in patients
with Ebola Virus Disease (EVD).

**How this relates to other guidance** : When necessary for patient care, this
information should be used along with Infection Prevention and Control
Recommendations for Hospitalized Patients Under Investigation (PUIs) for Ebola
Virus Disease (EVD) in U.S. Hospitals

## Key Points

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1. Follow Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) guidance.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2. Healthcare personnel must prevent direct contact or splashes with blood and body fluids, contaminated equipment, and soiled environmental surfaces.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3. Healthcare personnel should only perform hemodialysis/CRRT in the patient's isolation room.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4. Limit the number of healthcare personnel who provide patient care and perform procedures.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5. These guidelines include multiple recommendations about safely selecting and using equipment, disposing of supplies and wastes, and disinfecting equipment. See the appropriate topic heading below for details.

The purpose of this document is to convey information to hospital-based
dialysis providers to help them safely perform renal replacement therapy
(hemodialysis) in patients with confirmed EVD.  Acute renal failure requiring
renal replacement therapy can occur in critically ill patients with EVD. The
recommendations and information below are specific for hemodialysis and should
be implemented with the precautions described in Infection Prevention and
Control Recommendations for Hospitalized Patients Under Investigation (PUIs)
for Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) in U.S. Hospitals.

Treatment decisions should be made by the clinical team caring for the
patient. However, infection control considerations may help to inform
providers' decisions and should influence hospitals' planning processes.

## Managing EVD in Hospital Settings

Inpatient care of patients with EVD should be provided in a hospital with
capacity to perform continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT). **Efforts to
minimize direct blood exposure to healthcare personnel and blood contamination
of the environment are of principal importance** due to the high concentration
of Ebola virus that can be present in an infected patient's blood and the
large volumes of blood involved in hemodialysis.

In general, CRRT would be preferred over acute peritoneal dialysis (most
commonly performed for acute kidney injury in pediatric patients) because of
challenges related to performing peritoneal dialysis catheter insertion in the
patient's isolation room and performing exchanges through a peritoneal
dialysis catheter that has not completely healed. It should be noted that
peritoneal dialysis effluent is likely to be much more infectious than
hemodialysis effluent and would need to be handled with extreme care.

## Patient Placement

Hemodialysis/CRRT should only be performed in the patient's isolation room.

## Establishing Vascular Access for Dialysis

Patients with EVD may have disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), and
correction of coagulopathy is not always possible. Read more on Ebola Virus
Disease (EVD) Information for Clinicians in U.S. Healthcare Settings.

Designate a highly competent individual, who has also been trained to follow
CDC guidelines for proper PPE procedures, to perform catheter insertion.

Perform catheter insertion in the isolation room and use local strategies to
minimize blood exposure during dialysis catheter placement.

The subclavian site for catheter insertion should be avoided because of the
challenges with direct site compression if bleeding occurs. Selection of the
internal jugular versus femoral vein for catheter insertion may depend on
patient characteristics and operator proficiency. Using a chest X-ray to
confirm line placement will require availability of portable X-ray equipment
within the isolation room. This and other factors should be considered in the
planning stage before it becomes necessary.

Ultrasound guidance should be used, by an individual fully trained in this
technique, to reduce cannulation attempts and mechanical complications,
including arterial puncture. If used, the ultrasound machine should be
dedicated to the isolation room until it can be terminally cleaned and
disinfected. Read more on Guidelines for the Prevention of Intravascular
Catheter-Related Infections, 2011 pdf icon[PDF - 83 pages].

Attach closed, needleless connector devices to the catheter hubs to reduce
blood exposure during catheter connections and disconnections.

## Healthcare Personnel Movement

If possible, limit the number and different types of healthcare personnel
involved in hemodialysis/CRRT procedures. For example, ICU nurses performing
CRRT could eliminate need for dialysis unit nursing staff to also care for the
patient.

## PPE

All staff involved in providing dialysis should follow recommendations for
appropriate PPE.

Staff should wear a fluid-resistant or impermeable apron if they will be
performing any circuit connection/disconnection procedures, handling used
dialyzers or tubing, or handling or draining effluent.

## Dedicated Equipment

A hemodialysis/CRRT machine should be dedicated for use on the patient and
kept in the isolation room until terminal disinfection procedures are
undertaken.

All other dialysis-related supplies, including the dialyzer, should be
disposed of after use in accordance with local, state, and federal
regulations. Read more on Ebola-Associated Waste Management.

Under no circumstances should a used dialyzer be reprocessed or reused.

## Effluent Disposal

Ebola virus should not be able to cross an intact dialyzer membrane. Because a
small dialyzer leak might not be apparent; however, dialysis effluent should
always be handled with care, and while wearing appropriate PPE, to avoid
contact and splashes.

The effluent should be disposed of in the toilet or other dedicated drain in a
manner that prevents splashes and allows safe drainage into the waste water
sewer system.

## Machine Selection and Management

Use a dialysis machine that is familiar to the staff who will perform
dialysis.

#### Machines for CRRT

Certain CRRT machines have features that make them easier to manage and to
decontaminate in the context of caring for a patient with EVD than traditional
hemodialysis machines, such as a completely closed system, lack of an internal
pathway, and use of disposable dialysate and saline supplies. The possibility
of blood contamination of internal machine components through pressure
monitors is also much less likely with these machines than with other
hemodialysis machines. During CRRT, staff should pay close attention to
pressure alarms and failures of pressure monitors and look for and document
any failure of the tubing or spillage of fluid outside of the tubing, as these
may have implications for more extensive machine disinfection procedures.

Additional considerations:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * If clinically appropriate, consider regional citrate anticoagulation during CRRT to reduce episodes of filter clotting that require manipulation of the dialyzer and/or circuit. Regional citrate anticoagulation for CRRT should be used only if the hospital has a protocol in place and nurses trained in the protocol.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Consider using the same CRRT machine for hemodialysis of the patient for as long as possible (while renal replacement therapy is needed) to avoid introducing a second dialysis machine.

#### Machines for intermittent hemodialysis

If use of an intermittent hemodialysis machine is warranted:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Complete all priming of the circuit prior to connecting bloodlines to the patient's catheter.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Use disposable accessory supplies, such as priming bucket and concentrate containers, if possible. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Establish steps for handling accessory supplies that are not disposable, must be dedicated to the patient, and disinfected between uses.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * If an attached computer keyboard is needed, use a flat solid surface keyboard that can be easily disinfected or a keyboard cover that can be disinfected or disposed of.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Pay close attention to pressure alarms, failures of the pressure monitor, and look for and document any flow of blood in the line approaching the external transducer protector, as these may signal internal contamination of the machine with blood.

### Machine Decontamination/Terminal Disinfection

**External machine surfaces**

Cleaning and disinfection of external machine surfaces should be performed in
accordance with CDC's Interim Guidance for Environmental Infection Control in
Hospitals for Ebola Virus and manufacturer's instructions.

General principles include the following:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Use appropriate PPE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Perform a cleaning step using a detergent.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Perform disinfection using an EPA-registered hospital disinfectantexternal icon recommended for use against Ebola.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Ensure all surfaces are cleaned and disinfected (including accessory equipment such as IV poles), paying particular attention to high-touch surfaces, such as control panels. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Assure sufficient wet contact time of disinfectant according to label claims for inactivation of a nonenveloped virus.

Additional considerations:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Vaporized hydrogen peroxide and ultraviolet (UV) light applications for decontamination of isolation room surfaces (during terminal disinfection) might serve to disinfect external surfaces of dialysis machines. If UV light is used, the importance of a direct line of sight for efficient disinfection should be considered.

CDC has been in contact with some machine manufacturers and may be able to
assist in providing more specific guidance for machine terminal disinfection
procedures. Call CDC Emergency Operations Center at 770-488-7100.

**Internal pathways**

Standard heat or chemical disinfection procedures recommended by machine
manufacturers and used routinely by dialysis providers are sufficient to
inactivate Ebola virus.

Internal machine disinfection of hemodialysis machines should be performed
between treatments and conducted in the isolation room.

**Other internal machine components**

If there is concern about the possibility of fluid contamination of internal
machine components such as pressure monitors, contact the manufacturer for
guidance and notify the appropriate local or state health department and CDC
Emergency Operations Center at 770-488-7100.

Page last reviewed: December 3, 2018

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Healthcare
Quality Promotion (DHQP)

home Ebola (Ebola Virus Disease)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What is Ebola Virus Disease?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * History of Ebola Virus Diseaseplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Years of Ebola Virus Disease Outbreaks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ebola Virus Disease Distribution Map: Cases of Ebola Virus Disease in Africa Since 1976
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2014-2016 Ebola Outbreak in West Africa plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Cost of the Ebola Epidemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2014-2016 Ebola Outbreak Distribution in West Africa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Case Counts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2014 Ebola Outbreak in West Africa Epidemic Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Signs and Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Prevention and Vaccineplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Handwashing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Survivors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Outbreaksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2018 Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congoplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Whatâs New
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What CDC is Doing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ebola By The Numbers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo Ebola Outbreak Map
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ebola Communication and Awareness Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2018 Democratic Republic of Congo, Bikoroplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Map of Ebola-Affected Health Zones in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2017 Democratic Republic of the Congo, Bas UÃ©lÃ© District
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2014 Ebola Outbreak in Democratic Republic of the Congo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Outbreak Preparedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Outbreak Response Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Itâs not over until itâs over
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Long flights, long days mark vaccine campaign
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Roads to Uganda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * How community feedback shapes the Ebola response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ebola outbreak becomes a class act for EIS officers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * In the shadow of the volcano
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Congo-born CDC photographer rooting for Ebola responders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fighting Ebola on familiar ground
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Thereâs no silver bullet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Strength In Numbers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Responding to a case of Ebola in Goma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fighting Ebola: Every day is a Monday
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Protecting the Health of Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Collaborating across Time Zones
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Being Creative in Goma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Crunching the Numbers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Supporting the Laboratory in Uganda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Supporting the Ministry of Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Protecting Ugandaâs Border
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Watching DRCâs Border
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * For Cliniciansplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ebola Virus Disease for Cliniciansplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Infection Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Acute Hemodialysis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pregnant Women
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Handling Human Remains
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Neonatal Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Evaluating Patientsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Case Definition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Think Ebola
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FAQs: Screening for Ebola Virus Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Discharging Persons Under Investigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Evaluating Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Management of Survivors of Ebola Virus Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Messages for the Care of Survivors of Ebola
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cleaning and Disinfectingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Hospital Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Waste Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Survivability of Ebola Virus in Medical Waste
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Handling Ebola-Associated Waste
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Emergency Services plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Emergency Department Guidance 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Emergency Department Preparedness Training 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * EMS Systems and 9-1-1 Answering Points 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Air Medical Transport SOP 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Transport of Pediatric Patients 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Interfacility Transport Guidance plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Patient Handoff SOP 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Air-to-Ground Patient Handoff SOP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ambulance Decontamination 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Outpatient Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Non US Healthcare Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventing Injury from Injections and Sharps in Non-U.S. General Healthcare Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Hand Hygiene in Non-U.S. General Healthcare Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Rationale and Considerations for Chlorine Use in Infection Control for Non- U.S. General Healthcare Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Laboratory Testingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Specimen Collection, Transport, and Submission 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Packing and Shipping Specimens 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Managing and Testing Routine Clinical Specimens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Non-CDC Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * For Public Health Plannersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Top 10 Ebola Response Planning Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Hospital Preparednessplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preparing Frontline Healthcare Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preparing Ebola Assessment Hospitals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preparing Ebola Treatment Centers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidance for Confirmed Ebola Patients or Clinically Unstable PUIs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidance for Clinically Stable PUIs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ebola PPE Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * PPE Supply Considerations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * PPE Calculator
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cleaning and Decontaminationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidance for the U.S. Residence Decontamination for Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) and Removal of Contaminated Waste
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidance for Handling Untreated Sewage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FAQs: Interim Guidance for Handling Untreated Sewage from Suspected or Confirmed Individuals with Ebola in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidance for Cleaning, Disinfection, and Waste Disposal in Commercial Passenger Aircraft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Notes on the Interim U.S. Guidance for Monitoring and Movement of Persons with Potential Ebola Virus Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Communication Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Audio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Infographics & Illustrations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Factsheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Virus Ecology Graphic

![      illustration of colorful DNA strand behind the text - CDC uses next-
generation sequencing to identify hemorrhagic fever viruses in
bats](/amd/images/amd-badges/amd-initiative-badge-filovirus.jpg)

![MMWR Ebola Reports](/vhf/ebola/images/mmwr-badge.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM

