https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/clinicians/evd/clinicians.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/clinicians/evd/clinicians.html    
                Description: To provide updated information about Ebola virus disease (EVD) to clinicians working in U.S. hospitals and health clinics.    
                Keywords: Ebola,  Ebola outbreak,  Guinea,  Ebola Hemorrhagic Fever,  Clinician Information,  U.S. Healthcare Settings,  hospitals,  health clinics, Viral Hemorrhagic Fevers VHF, Ebola Virus Disease    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Ebola (Ebola Virus Disease)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate

# Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) Information for Clinicians in U.S. Healthcare
Settings

Minus

Related Pages

Page Summary

 **Who this is for** : Hospital-based clinicians and other U.S. healthcare
providers.

**What this is for** : To provide updated information about Ebola virus
disease (EVD) to clinicians working in U.S. hospitals and health clinics.

**How to use** : Use this guidance for more information on clinical
presentation and clinical course, pathogenesis, laboratory findings, and
evaluation of patients under investigation (PUIs) for EVD.

**The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is working closely with the
World Health Organization, state and local health departments, clinicians, and
other partners to better understand and manage the public health risks posed
by Ebola virus disease (EVD). From August 2014 through April 2015, a total of
eleven EVD patients were cared for in hospitals in the United States. These
included seven EVD patients who were evacuated from West Africa for further
medical care, and two imported cases and two secondary cases of EVD who were
diagnosed in the United States. The purpose of this document is to provide
updated information about EVD to clinicians working in U.S. hospitals and
health clinics.**

## Key Points

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1. EVD can be confused with other more common infectious diseases such as malaria, typhoid fever, meningococcemia, and other bacterial infections. Follow CDC's PPE guidance for confirmed Ebola patients.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2. Gastrointestinal symptoms may develop after about 5 days to develop symptoms such as severe watery diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, and abdominal pain.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3. Ebola virus enters the patient through mucous membranes, breaks in the skin, or parenterally. Healthcare personnel must prevent direct contact or splashes with blood and body fluids, contaminated equipment, and soiled environmental surfaces.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4. Travelers with possible exposure to Ebola virus may need public health monitoring and movement controls depending on the risk of exposure and clinical presentation. Clinicians should contact local or state health departments for more information.

## Clinical Presentation and Clinical Course

Patients with EVD generally have abrupt onset of fever and symptoms typically
8 to12 days after exposure (incubation period for current outbreak has a mean
of approximately 9 to 11 days). Initial signs and symptoms are nonspecific and
may include elevated body temperature or subjective fever, chills, myalgias,
and malaise. Because of these nonspecific symptoms, particularly early in the
course of the disease, EVD often can be confused with other more common
infectious diseases such as malaria, typhoid fever, meningococcemia, and other
bacterial infections (for example, pneumonia).

Patients can progress from the initial nonspecific symptoms after about 5 days
to develop gastrointestinal symptoms such as severe watery diarrhea, nausea,
vomiting, and abdominal pain. Other symptoms such as chest pain, shortness of
breath, headache, or confusion also may develop. Patients often have
conjunctival injection. Hiccups have been reported. Seizures may occur, and
cerebral edema has been reported. Bleeding is not universally present but can
manifest later in the course as petechiae, ecchymosis/bruising, or oozing from
venipuncture sites and mucosal hemorrhage. Frank hemorrhage is less common. In
the current outbreak unexplained bleeding has been reported in only 18% of
patients, most often blood in the stool (about 6%). Patients may develop a
diffuse erythematous maculopapular rash by day 5 to 7 (usually involving the
neck, trunk, and arms) that can desquamate. Pregnant women may experience
spontaneous miscarriages. The most common signs and symptoms reported from
West Africa during the current outbreak from symptom-onset to the time the
case was detected include: fever (87%), fatigue (76%), vomiting (68%),
diarrhea (66%), and loss of appetite (65%).

Patients with fatal disease usually develop more severe clinical signs early
during infection and die typically between days 6 and 16 of complications
including multiorgan failure and septic shock (mean of 7.5 days from symptom
onset to death during the current outbreak in West Africa). In nonfatal cases,
patients may have fever for several days and improve, typically around day 6.
Patients who survive can have a prolonged convalescence. The case fatality
proportion among patients with a known outcome in Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra
Leone is 70%; this proportion is 61% among hospitalized patients. Risk factors
significantly associated with a fatal outcome in the affected countries in
West Africa include: age >45 years old; unexplained bleeding; and a number of
other signs and symptoms such as diarrhea, chest pain, cough, difficulty
breathing, difficulty swallowing, conjunctivitis, sore throat, confusion,
hiccups, and coma or unconsciousness. Mortality reported for patients cared
for in Ebola treatment units in West Africa ranged from 37-74%. Of 27 patients
with Ebola virus disease who were managed in hospitals in the U.S. or Europe,
9 received non-invasive or invasive mechanical ventilation and 5 received
continuous renal replacement therapy; the case fatality proportion for these
27 EVD patients was 18.5%.

Top of Page

## Pathogenesis

Ebola virus enters the patient through mucous membranes, breaks in the skin,
or parenterally and infects many cell types, including monocytes, macrophages,
dendritic cells, endothelial cells, fibroblasts, hepatocytes, adrenal cortical
cells, and epithelial cells. The incubation period may be related to the
infection route (6 days for injection versus 10 days for contact). Ebola virus
migrates from the initial infection site to regional lymph nodes and
subsequently to the liver, spleen, and adrenal gland. Although not infected by
Ebola virus, lymphocytes undergo apoptosis resulting in decreased lymphocyte
counts. Hepatocellular necrosis occurs and is associated with dysregulation of
clotting factors and subsequent coagulopathy. Adrenocortical necrosis also can
be found and is associated with hypotension and impaired steroid synthesis.
Ebola virus appears to trigger a release of pro-inflammatory cytokines with
subsequent vascular leak and impairment of clotting ultimately resulting in
multiorgan failure and shock.

Top of Page

## Laboratory Findings

Laboratory findings at admission may include leukopenia frequently with
lymphopenia followed later by elevated neutrophils and a left shift. Platelet
counts often are decreased in the 50,000 to 100,000 range. Amylase may be
elevated, reflecting pancreatic involvement (inflammation/infection). Hepatic
transaminases are elevated with aspartate aminotransferase (AST) exceeding
alanine aminotransferase (ALT); these values may peak at more than 1,000 IU/L.
Proteinuria may be present. Prothrombin (PT) and partial thromboplastin times
(PTT) are prolonged and fibrin degradation products are elevated, consistent
with disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC).

Top of Page

## Initial Evaluation of Persons Under Investigation (PUIs) or Patients with
Confirmed EVD

Patients under investigation (PUIs) or patients with confirmed EVD presenting
to healthcare settings should be handled with appropriate precautions as soon
as possible to prevent transmission of Ebola virus to others. See CDC's
infection control guidance

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Additional information on evaluating PUIs is available here
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Interim Guidance for Environmental Infection Control in Hospitals for Ebola Virus

Patients from countries with Ebola outbreaks who present with fever could have
other potentially fatal infectious diseases that should be considered in the
differential diagnosis, including but not limited to malaria, typhoid fever,
and bacterial infections such as pneumonia. Evaluation of febrile illness in a
recent traveler should include a thorough travel and exposure history.

See additional information about fever in travelers returning from affected
countries.

For information about malaria please see CDC's malaria website.

Health care providers needing assistance with diagnosis or management of
suspected cases of malaria should call the CDC Malaria Hotline at:  
770-488-7788 or 855-856-4713 toll-free (M-F, 9 a.m.-5 p.m., EST).

For emergency consultation after hours, call: 770-488-7100 and request to
speak with a CDC Malaria Branch clinician.

Nonurgent questions can be emailed to: malaria@cdc.gov

Travelers from areas with Ebola outbreaks are advised to self-monitor their
health for 21 days after departure and to seek health care if fever and
symptoms develop. Travelers with possible exposure to Ebola virus, for example
in a healthcare setting.

**The current CDC definition of a PUI is available atCase Definition for Ebola
Virus Disease (EVD).**

Currently a PUI for EVD is defined as illness in a person who has both
consistent symptoms and risk factors as follows: 1) Clinical criteria, which
include elevated body temperature or subjective fever or additional symptoms
such as severe headache, fatigue, muscle pain, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal
pain, or unexplained hemorrhage; AND 2) epidemiologic risk factors within the
past 21 days before the onset of symptoms, such as contact with blood or other
body fluids of a PUI or patient with confirmed EVD; residence in--or travel to
--a country with widespread transmission or cases in urban settings with
uncertain control measures; participation in funeral and burial rituals, or
direct handling of bats, rodents, or primates from disease-endemic areas.

Facilities evaluating a PUI should contact their local or state health
department for testing. Health departments should contact the CDC Emergency
Operations Center at 770-488-7100 for testing and consultation.

All laboratory testing should be performed using appropriate laboratory safety
guidance. For information regarding guidance of specimen collection,
transport, testing, and submission for PUIs, see CDC's Guidance for
Collection, Transport, Testing, and Submission of Specimens for Ebola Virus
Testing, and the accompanying infographic pdf icon[PDF - 1 page]. In general,
laboratory testing should be kept to the minimum as required for patient care.

Top of Page

## Treatment

Clinical management of EVD should focus on supportive care of complications,
such as hypovolemia, electrolyte abnormalities, hematologic abnormalities,
refractory shock, hypoxia, hemorrhage, septic shock, multiorgan failure, and
DIC.

Recommended care includes volume repletion, maintenance of blood pressure
(with vasopressors if needed), and maintenance of oxygenation, pain control,
nutritional support, and treatment of  secondary bacterial infections and pre-
existing comorbidities. Large volumes of intravenous fluids are often required
to correct dehydration due to diarrhea and vomiting. Some patients may develop
profound third-spacing of fluids due to vascular leak. Some organizations
suggest the addition of broad-spectrum antimicrobials, particularly in
patients with evidence of septic shock. Infection prevention and control
measures are a critical part of clinical management. Consider all bodily
fluids and clinical specimens as potentially infectious.

## Investigational Treatment

The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not yet approved a specific
treatment for Ebola virus infection. Several investigational treatments have
been evaluated in clinical trials. These trials show patients receiving REGN-
EB3 and mAb114 had a greater chance of survival compared to patients receiving
other treatments under investigation. The overall survival for those receiving
either mAb114 or REGN-EB3 was approximately 70% and for those presenting with
a low viral load it was approximately 90%.

REGN-EB3 is a three monoclonal antibody combination/cocktail intended for use
in all patients. mAb114 is a monoclonal antibody molecule that flags the Ebola
virus ( _Zaire ebolavirus_ ) for action by the immune system. mAb114 is
intended for use in infected adults and children who are at early stages of
infection symptoms.

For more information on Ebola Treatment, visit the WHO's Ebola Treatment and
Careexternal icon website.

Top of Page

**Vaccine**

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved the Ebola vaccine rVSV-
ZEBOV (tradename "Ervebo") on December 19, 2019. The rVSV-ZEBOV vaccine is a
single dose vaccine regimen that has been found to be safe and protective
against only the _Zaire ebolavirus_ species of ebolavirus. This is the first
FDA approval of a vaccine for Ebola.

Adverse effects following vaccination can occur. While typically mild,
reported adverse effects include headache, fatigue, muscle pain, and mild
fever. It is not possible to get Ebola from the rVSV-ZEBOV vaccine because it
does not contain the whole Ebola virus. The vaccine contains only a small
piece from the Ebola virus (species _Zaire ebolavirus_ ) that helps the body
build defenses against Ebola infection. Only the whole Ebola virus can cause
an infection.

After receiving the vaccine, it is important to continue infection prevention
precautions against Ebola (for example, wear PPE that covers clothing and skin
and prevents any exposure of the eyes, nose, and mouth; wash hands; avoid
contact with blood and body fluids) because the vaccine may not be 100%
effective for everyone.



Top of Page

References

Ansumana R, Jacobsen KH, Sahr F, Idris M, Bangura H, Boie-Jalloh M et al.
Ebola in Freetown area, Sierra Leone-a case study of 581 patients. _N Engl J
Med_. 2015 Feb 5;372(6):587-8.

Bah EI, Lamah MC, Fletcher T, Jacob ST, Brett-Major DM, Sall AA et al.
Clinical Presentation of Patients with Ebola Virus Disease in Conakry, Guinea.
_N Engl J Med._ 2015 Jan 1;372(1):40-7.

Baize S, Pannetier D, Oestereich L, Rieger T, Koivogui L, Magassouba N et al.
Emergence of Zaire Ebola virus disease in Guinea. _N Engl J Med._ 2014 Oct
9;371(15):1418-25.

Brett-Major DM, Jacob ST, Jacquerioz FA, Risi GF, Fischer WA 2nd, Kato Y et
al. Beng Ready to Treat Ebola Virus Disease Patients. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 2015
Feb 4;92(2):233-7.

Chertow DS, Kleine C, Edwards JK, Scaini R, Giuliani R, Sprecher A. Ebola
Virus Disease in West Africa - Clinical Manifestations and Management. _N Engl
J Med._ 2014 Nov 27;371(22):2054-7.

Chertow DS, Nath A, Suffredini AF, Danner RL, Reich DS, Bishop RJ, Childs RW,
Arai AE, Palmore TN, Lane HC, Fauci AS, Davey RT. Severe Meningoencephalitis
in a Case of Ebola Virus Disease: A Case Report. _Ann Intern Med_. 2016 Apr 5.
doi: 10.7326/M15-3066. [Epub ahead of print]

Feldmann H , Geisbert TW. Ebola Haemorrhagic Fever. _Lancet._ 2011 Mar
5;377(9768):849-62.

Fitzpatrick G, Vogt F, Moi Gbabai OB, Decroo T, Keane M, De Clerck H et al.
The Contribution of Ebola Viral Load at Admission and Other Patient
Characteristics to Mortality in a Medecins Sans Frontieres Ebola Case
Management Centre, Kailahun, Sierra Leone, June-October 2014. _J Infect Dis_.
2015 Dec 1;212(11):1752-8.

Florescu DF, Kalil AC, Hewlett AL, Schuh AJ, Stroher U, Uyeki TM et al.
Administration of Brincidofovir and Convalescent Plasma in a Patient With
Ebola Virus Disease. _Clin Infect Dis_. 2015 Sep 15;61(6):969-73.

Fowler RA, Fletcher T, Fischer WA 2nd, Lamontagne F, Jacob S, Brett-Major D et
al. Caring for Critically Ill Patients with Ebola Virus Disease: Perspectives
from West Africa. _Am J Respir Crit Care Med._ 2014 Oct 1;190(7):733-7.

Hunt L, Gupta-Wright A, Simms V, Tamba F, Knott V, Tamba K et al. Clinical
presentation, biochemical, and haematological parameters and their association
with outcome in patients with Ebola virus disease: an observational cohort
study. _Lancet Infect Dis_. 2015 Nov;15(11):1292-9.

Jacobs M, Aarons E, Bhagani S, Buchanan R, Cropley I, Hopkins S et al. Post-
exposure prophylaxis against Ebola virus disease with experimental antiviral
agents: a case-series of health-care workers. _Lancet Infect Dis_. 2015
Nov;15(11):1300-4.

Johnson DW, Sullivan JN, Piquette CA, Hewlett AL, Bailey KL, Smith PW et al.
Lessons Learned: Critical Care Management of Patients With Ebola in the United
States. Crit Care Med. 2015 Jun;43(6):1157-64.

Kortepeter MG, Bausch DG, Bray M. Basic Clinical and Laboratory Features of
Filoviral Hemorrhagic Fever. _J Infect Dis._ 2011 Nov;204 Suppl 3:S810-6.

Kraft CS, Hewlett AL, Koepsell S, Winkler AM, Kratochvil CJ, Larson L et al.
The Use of TKM-100802 and Convalescent Plasma in 2 Patients With Ebola Virus
Disease in the United States. _Clin Infect Dis_. 2015 Aug 15;61(4):496-502.

Kreuels B, Wichmann D, Emmerich P, Schmidt-Chanasit J, de Heer G, Kluge S et
al. A Case of Severe Ebola Virus Infection Complicated by Gram-Negative
Septicemia. _N Engl J Med._ 2014 Dec 18;371(25):2394-2401.

Lai L, Davey R, Beck A, Xu Y, Suffredini AF, Palmore T wt al. Emergency
Postexposure Vaccination With Vesicular Stomatitis Virus-Vectored Ebola
Vaccine After Needlestick. JAMA. 2015 Mar 24-31;313(12):1249-55.

Liddell AM, Davey RT Jr, Mehta AK, Varkey JB, Kraft CS, Tseggay GK et al.
Characteristics and Clinical Management of a Cluster of 3 Patients With Ebola
Virus Disease, Including the First Domestically Acquired Cases in the United
States. _Ann Intern Med_. 2015 Jul 21;163(2):81-90.

Lyon GM, Mehta AK, Varkey JB, Brantly K, Plyler L, McElroy AK et al. Clinical
Care of Two Patients with Ebola Virus Disease in the United States. _N Engl J
Med._ 2014 Dec 18;371(25):2402-2409.

Mora-Rillo M, Arsuaga M, Ramirez-Olivencia G, de la Calle F, Borobia AM,
Sanchez-Seco P et al. Acute respiratory distress syndrome after convalescent
plasma use: treatment of a patient with Ebola virus disease contracted in
Madrid, Spain. _Lancet Respir Med_. 2015 Jul;3(7):554-62.

Parra JM, Salmeron OJ, Velasco M. The First Case of Ebola Virus Disease
Acquired outside Africa. _N Engl J Med._ 2014 Dec 18;371(25):2439-40.

Qin E, Bi J, Zhao M, Wang Y, Guo T, Yan T et al. Clinical Features of Patients
With Ebola Virus Disease in Sierra Leone. _Clin Infect Dis_. 2015 Aug
15;61(4):491-5.

Sagui E, Janvier F, Baize S, Foissaud V, Koulibaly F, Savini H et al. Severe
Ebola Virus Infection With Encephalopathy: Evidence for Direct Virus
Involvement. _Clin Infect Dis_. 2015 Nov 15;61(10):1627-8.

Schibler M, Vetter P, Cherpillod P, Petty TJ, Cordey S, Vieille G et al.
Clinical features and viral kinetics in a rapidly cured patient with Ebola
virus disease: a case report. _Lancet Infect Dis_. 2015 Sep;15(9):1034-40.

Schieffelin JS, Shaffer JG, Goba A, Gbakie M, Gire SK, Colubri A et al.
Clinical Illness and Outcomes in Patients with Ebola in Sierra Leone. _N Engl
J Med._ Nov 27;371(22):2092-100.

Sueblinvong V, Johnson DW, Weinstein GL, Connor MJ Jr, Crozier I, Liddell AM
et al. Critical Care for Multiple Organ Failure Secondary to Ebola Virus
Disease in the United States. _Crit Care Med_. 2015 Oct;43(10):2066-75.

Uyeki TM, Mehta AK, Davey RT Jr, Liddell AM, Wolf T, Vetter P et al. Clinical
Management of Ebola Virus Disease in the United States and Europe. _N Engl J
Med_. 2016 Feb 18;374(7):636-46.

WHO Ebola Response Team, Agua-Agum J, Ariyarajah A, Blake IM, Cori A, Donnelly
CA, Dorigatti I et al. Ebola virus disease among children in West Africa. _N
Engl J Med_. 2015 Mar 26;372(13):1274-7.

WHO Ebola Response Team. Ebola Virus Disease in West Africa - The First 9
Months of the Epidemic and Forward Projections. _N Engl J Med._ 2014 Oct
16;371(16):1481-95.

WHO Ebola Response Team. West African Ebola Epidemic after One Year -- Slowing
but Not Yet under Control. _N Engl J Med_. 2015 Feb 5;372(6):584-7.

Wong KK, Davey RT Jr, Hewlett AL, Kraft CS, Mehta AK, Mulligan MJ, Beck A,
Dorman W, Kratochvil CJ, Lai L, Palmore TN, Rogers S, Smith PW, Suffredini AF,
Wolcott M, Stroher U, Uyeki TM. Use of post-exposure prophylaxis after
occupational exposure to Zaire ebolavirus. _Clin Infect Dis_. 2016 Apr 26.
pii: ciw256. [Epub ahead of print]

Page last reviewed: May 24, 2016

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Healthcare
Quality Promotion (DHQP)

home Ebola (Ebola Virus Disease)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What is Ebola Virus Disease?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * History of Ebola Virus Diseaseplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Years of Ebola Virus Disease Outbreaks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ebola Virus Disease Distribution Map: Cases of Ebola Virus Disease in Africa Since 1976
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2014-2016 Ebola Outbreak in West Africa plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Cost of the Ebola Epidemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2014-2016 Ebola Outbreak Distribution in West Africa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Case Counts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2014 Ebola Outbreak in West Africa Epidemic Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Signs and Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Prevention and Vaccineplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Handwashing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Survivors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Outbreaksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2018 Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congoplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Whatâs New
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What CDC is Doing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ebola By The Numbers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo Ebola Outbreak Map
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ebola Communication and Awareness Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2018 Democratic Republic of Congo, Bikoroplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Map of Ebola-Affected Health Zones in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2017 Democratic Republic of the Congo, Bas UÃ©lÃ© District
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2014 Ebola Outbreak in Democratic Republic of the Congo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Outbreak Preparedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Outbreak Response Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Itâs not over until itâs over
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Long flights, long days mark vaccine campaign
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Roads to Uganda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * How community feedback shapes the Ebola response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ebola outbreak becomes a class act for EIS officers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * In the shadow of the volcano
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Congo-born CDC photographer rooting for Ebola responders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fighting Ebola on familiar ground
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Thereâs no silver bullet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Strength In Numbers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Responding to a case of Ebola in Goma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fighting Ebola: Every day is a Monday
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Protecting the Health of Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Collaborating across Time Zones
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Being Creative in Goma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Crunching the Numbers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Supporting the Laboratory in Uganda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Supporting the Ministry of Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Protecting Ugandaâs Border
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Watching DRCâs Border
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * For Cliniciansplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ebola Virus Disease for Cliniciansplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Infection Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Acute Hemodialysis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pregnant Women
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Handling Human Remains
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Neonatal Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Evaluating Patientsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Case Definition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Think Ebola
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FAQs: Screening for Ebola Virus Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Discharging Persons Under Investigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Evaluating Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Management of Survivors of Ebola Virus Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Messages for the Care of Survivors of Ebola
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cleaning and Disinfectingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Hospital Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Waste Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Survivability of Ebola Virus in Medical Waste
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Handling Ebola-Associated Waste
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Emergency Services plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Emergency Department Guidance 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Emergency Department Preparedness Training 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * EMS Systems and 9-1-1 Answering Points 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Air Medical Transport SOP 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Transport of Pediatric Patients 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Interfacility Transport Guidance plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Patient Handoff SOP 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Air-to-Ground Patient Handoff SOP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ambulance Decontamination 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Outpatient Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Non US Healthcare Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventing Injury from Injections and Sharps in Non-U.S. General Healthcare Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Hand Hygiene in Non-U.S. General Healthcare Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Rationale and Considerations for Chlorine Use in Infection Control for Non- U.S. General Healthcare Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Laboratory Testingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Specimen Collection, Transport, and Submission 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Packing and Shipping Specimens 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Managing and Testing Routine Clinical Specimens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Non-CDC Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * For Public Health Plannersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Top 10 Ebola Response Planning Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Hospital Preparednessplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preparing Frontline Healthcare Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preparing Ebola Assessment Hospitals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preparing Ebola Treatment Centers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidance for Confirmed Ebola Patients or Clinically Unstable PUIs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidance for Clinically Stable PUIs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ebola PPE Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * PPE Supply Considerations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * PPE Calculator
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cleaning and Decontaminationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidance for the U.S. Residence Decontamination for Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) and Removal of Contaminated Waste
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidance for Handling Untreated Sewage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FAQs: Interim Guidance for Handling Untreated Sewage from Suspected or Confirmed Individuals with Ebola in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidance for Cleaning, Disinfection, and Waste Disposal in Commercial Passenger Aircraft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Notes on the Interim U.S. Guidance for Monitoring and Movement of Persons with Potential Ebola Virus Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Communication Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Audio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Infographics & Illustrations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Factsheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Virus Ecology Graphic

![      illustration of colorful DNA strand behind the text - CDC uses next-
generation sequencing to identify hemorrhagic fever viruses in
bats](/amd/images/amd-badges/amd-initiative-badge-filovirus.jpg)

![MMWR Ebola Reports](/vhf/ebola/images/mmwr-badge.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM

