https://www.cdc.gov/flu/pandemic-resources/national-strategy/planning-guidance/guidance.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/flu/pandemic-resources/national-strategy/planning-guidance/guidance.html    
                Description: Everything you need to know about the flu illness, including symptoms, treatment and prevention.    
                Keywords: influenza, flu, spanish flu, avian flu, asian flu, influenza-like illness, ILI, influenza a, influenza b, influenza c, influenza activity, influenza branch, influenza pandemic, influenza epidemic, flu vaccine, flu shot, antiviral, antiviral drug, antiviral medications, antiviral agents, influenza surveillance, strain selection, hong kong flu, swine flu, hemagglutinin, neuraminidase, respiratory illness, guillain barre syndrome, stomach flu, influenza summary update, amantadine, rimantadine, zanamivir, oseltamivir, influenza prevention, influenza control, negative rna strand virus, antigenic drift, antigenic shift, CDC    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Influenza (Flu)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Guidance Development and Revision

EspaÃ±ol

Minus

Table of Contents

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Introduction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidance Development and Revision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Vaccination of Tier 1 at All Pandemic Severities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Implementation of this Guidance during a Future Pandemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Vaccination Tier 2 through 5 by Pandemic Severity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Next Steps for the U.S. Government, States, and Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * References
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Appendix A

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General Principles and Interim Guidance on Pandemic Vaccination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Framework for Targeting Pandemic Influenza Vaccine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Defining Who is Included in Each Population Group
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidance for Targeting Pandemic Vaccination

Following the experience gained in responding to the emergence of the Severe
Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) in 2003 and the global spread of the avian
influenza A (H5N1) virus that began in 2003, the U.S. government initiated a
process to develop guidance in a number of areas for the public and private
sectors to prepare for an influenza pandemic.

The initial draft of this vaccine allocation guidance was published in 2008 by
a federal interagency working group whose members represented all sectors of
the government. Their approach was based on the best scientific information
available at that time (e.g., historical data, vaccine supply, vaccine impact
in different scenarios, and different population groups), and directly
considered the values of our society and the ethical issues involved in
planning a phased approach to pandemic vaccination that, by necessity, means
that some people will receive vaccine before others. Information considered by
the working group included assessments of candidate pandemic vaccines,
national and homeland security issues, essential community services and the
infrastructure and workforce critical to maintaining them, and the
perspectives of state and local public health and homeland security experts.
Historical analysis of the influenza pandemics of 1918, 1957, and 1968 and
their impacts also provided valuable insights to this guidance.

In addition to key scientific information, meetings with the public and
stakeholders, including businesses and community organizations, provided key
perspectives on public values and priorities about which subgroups would
require the earliest vaccine protection in the event of an influenza pandemic.
Meeting participants discussed and rated the importance of potential
vaccination program objectives based on a severe pandemic scenario. A key
principle established by the working group and reinforced by public and
stakeholder input Cdc-pdf[269, KB, 34 pages]External was that the goals to
reduce illness and associated disruption to society and the economy, "cannot
be achieved by targeting vaccine to one occupational or risk group at the
exclusion of others."  Notably, pandemic planning working groups, public
engagement meetings, and stakeholder meetings came to the same conclusions
about which program objectives were the most important:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Protecting those who are essential to the pandemic response and provide care for persons who are ill,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Protecting those who maintain national security and essential community services,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Protecting children and pregnant women, and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Protecting workers who are at greater risk of infection due to their job.

Working group discussions also highlighted the important federal objective of
maintaining homeland and national security.

![room with people and computers working](/flu/pandemic-
resources/images/cyber-security.jpg)

### General Principles and Interim Guidance on Pandemic Vaccination
(Established in 2008)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * At the time of the next pandemic, CDC, with input from across the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), other relevant federal agencies will: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * assess pandemic severity,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * determine whether the pandemic is likely to result in significant and disruptive workplace absenteeism (especially among critical workforce),
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * advise whether vaccine targeting guidance should be used, and if so, how it should be modified based on the characteristics of the emerging pandemic and pandemic vaccine availability, and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * assess vaccine in the federal stockpile to determine whether it can be used to reduce the impact of the pandemic.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The need to target vaccine to maintain national security, health care, and other essential community services and to preserve critical infrastructure will depend on the severity of the pandemic and vaccine availability, as rates of absenteeism and the ability to supply essential products and services will differ for more or less severe pandemics. As a result, groups identified for earlier vaccination will differ depending on pandemic severity and vaccine supply.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Allocation of pandemic vaccines by the U.S. government to states and territories will likely be in proportion to states and territories' populations.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * States should follow the national guidance to ensure fairness and uniformity across the U.S. and minimize confusion, as much as possible. Within the parameters of the guidance, states will have the authority to approve vaccine orders from providers in their jurisdiction in order to distribute vaccine to meet the specific needs in their populations. In past pandemics, groups at increased risk for serious illness and death have differed by age and health status. Because the high-risk groups in the next pandemic are not known in advance, planners should consider how the guidance might be modified for different pandemic scenarios (Implementation of this guidance during a future pandemic).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidance on pandemic vaccine allocation and targeting will be reassessed periodically before and throughout a pandemic to consider new scientific information, including risk of severe outcomes by age and risk groups, changes in vaccine production capacity, and advances in other health and public health response measures.

This revised guidance updates the prior 2008 guidance with the following major
changes:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Updates severity categories based on the current CDC _Pandemic Severity Assessment Framework_ 2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Incorporates lessons learned from the 2009 H1N1 pandemic response, such as the unpredictability of pandemic severity and timing, variability of the impact of pandemic severity on critical infrastructure functions, challenges with vaccine supply overall and variability among manufacturers, and the need for flexibility at the state, tribal and local levels to best manage vaccine supplies to meet local needs.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Includes the consideration that two doses of vaccine and co-administration of adjuvant may be required to produce protective immunity in some scenarios.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Moves pharmacists and pharmacy technicians to Tier 1, since pharmacists and pharmacy technicians will be crucial to antiviral dispensing, and many pharmacists will be pandemic vaccine immunizers.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Updates U.S. population numbers based on the 2005 U.S. population of 300 million to the population estimates from the 2015 U.S. Census (321 million)3.

Input from multiple sectors and public health officials also informed this
revision. Importantly, however, the 2009 H1N1 pandemic and subsequent
discussions with stakeholders reinforced the core objectives and guiding
principles established previously with stakeholders, and preserved in this
document.

The guidance also includes consideration for allocating stockpiled pre-
pandemic vaccine (i.e., vaccine produced against novel influenza A viruses
with pandemic potential), if stockpiled vaccine is likely to be effective
against the pandemic virus. In addition, the guidance now includes the
consideration that two doses of vaccine and co-administration of adjuvant may
be required to produce protective immunity in some scenarios.

Guidance Framework At-A-Glance

 **Categories** - Pandemic vaccination population groups are clustered into
four broad categories (homeland and national security, health care and
community support services, critical infrastructure, and the general
population). These four categories together cover the entire population.

**Population Groups** - People targeted for vaccination defined by occupation,
age group, or risk level.

**Tiers** - Across categories, vaccine will be allocated and administered
according to tiers where all groups designated for vaccination within a tier
have equal priority for vaccination. Groups within tiers vary depending on
pandemic severity.

**Critical Workforce** - Workers with critical skills, experience,
certification or licensure status whose absence would create severe
bottlenecks in or the collapse of critical functions.

### Framework for Targeting Pandemic Influenza Vaccine

Revised guidance for allocating and targeting initial vaccination of certain
groups includes a structure, as in the 2008 guidance, that defines population
groups in four broad categories that correspond with the objectives of a
pandemic vaccination program - to protect people who 1) maintain homeland and
national security, 2) provide health care and community support services, 3)
maintain critical infrastructure, and 4) are in the general population.

Each broad category includes specific popula­tions that are defined by their
occupation or by their age and health status (see Table 1) for the purpose of
organizing the vaccination program and targeting of vaccination when the
initial supply of vaccine is limited. As identified in Table 1, population
groups are offered vaccine in "tiers" based the severity of the pandemic.
Reflecting public values and the need to address multiple important objectives
with the pandem­ic vaccination program, each of the top tiers includes
populations from all four categories for a severe pandemic.

Critical workforces are more specifically targeted in a more severe pandemic
than when the pandemic severity is lower and the risk to societal and
community functioning is also lower. Once a novel influenza virus has emerged
and is circulating in human populations, the risk posed by the epidemic itself
can be assessed.  Pandemic vaccine target groups will differ depending on
pandemic severity and vaccine supply.  In all levels of pandemic severity,
public health and front-line healthcare providers, emergency services
personnel, deployed and mission essential personnel; manufacturers of pandemic
vaccine and antivirals; and pregnant women, infants and toddlers would be
targeted for early receipt of vaccine.  However, targeting of other critical
workforce groups would depend on pandemic severity, the risk of severe illness
by age group, vaccine supply, and the accompanying disruption to security,
society, and the economy.  For instance, there likely would be more focused
targeting of critical workforce in a pandemic with a high or very high level
of severity and limited early supply of pandemic vaccine, and less need for
targeting critical workforce in less severe pandemics as threats to security,
society, and the economy will be less significant in those pandemics.  CDC
will utilize the Pandemic Severity Assessment Framework (PSAF)1 which
incorporates an assessment of influenza transmissibility and clinical
severity, to determine pandemic severity.  The U.S. government will use this
assessment to develop more specific guidance on vaccination prioritization and
determine how the tier schema outlined in this document will be adapted to an
actual pandemic.

![Pandemic influenza vaccination planning table](/flu/pandemic-
resources/images/table-1-tiers.jpg)

View large image and text description

### Defining Who is Included in Each Population Group

Everyone in the United States is included in at least one vaccination
population group. Individuals not included in an occupational group will be
vaccinated as part of the general population based on their age and health
status. When a person is included in more than one population group, they will
be vaccinated in the highest tier group in which they are included.
Occupationally-defined groups (i.e., those defined in the homeland and
national security, health care and community support services, and other
critical infrastructure categories) do not include the entire workforce, but
rather only persons who, based on the nature of their role or occupation, are
individually critical for providing essential services during a pandemic
(Appendix A).  Preliminary identification of critical functions was partly
based on an analysis of critical sectors and workforces conducted by DHS's
National Infrastructure Advisory CouncilExternal (NIAC), along with input from
other federal agencies. Additional planning in each community, in coordination
with its state, tribes, or territory, is recommended to more specifically
determine and identify the individuals in critical occupations and other
potentially prioritized groups who should receive early vaccination so that
employers and public health emergency planners can reach those individuals
quickly and without confusion when necessary. Because an influenza pandemic
differs from other national emergencies in the threat it poses and the
duration over which it will affect our nation and communities, populations
targeted for vaccination within each sector may be different from those
defined in other emergency response plans.

It should be noted that members of occupational groups are defined by the
functions that persons within that group are anticipated to perform during the
pandemic; it does not distinguish among staff performing these duties as part
of their usual functions, those being reassigned to perform the function as a
new response role, or those performing the function as a volunteer. It should
also be noted that vaccine does not replace, but adds to other measures taken
to protect the workforce and general population.

The primary objective of vaccinating persons in critical infrastructure
sectors is to protect workers with critical skills, experience, certification
or licensure status whose absence would create severe bottlenecks in or the
collapse of critical functions and to protect workers who are at especially
high occupational risk (e.g.,  emergency services personnel and essential
utility services personnel). Other pandemic response strategies (e.g., prompt
treatment, asking sick workers to stay home and away from the workplace,
antiviral post-exposure prophylaxis, engineering controls in workplaces,
changing work practices to reduce close contact with others, good hand
washing, or worker education) are likely to be effective in decreasing
absenteeism and are recommended for the entire workforce, not just those
fulfilling critical functions.

![Vaccination tiers and population groups for a high/very high level of
pandemic severity. ](/flu/pandemic-resources/images/figure-1-Vaccination-
Tiers-medium.jpg)

View large image and text description

### Guidance for Targeting Pandemic Vaccination

National guidance for targeting pandemic influenza vaccination planning is
provided in Table 1 with the understanding that the numbers of people within
each group are estimates and actual recommendations may change for a future
pandemic and as the pandemic progresses. In general, all groups designated for
vaccination within a tier have equal priority for vaccination. However, an
important lesson learned from the 2009 H1N1 pandemic and other public health
emergencies is that decisions at the state, local, and provider level may be
appropriate to adapt these designations to local realities. State and
territorial health departments, in coordination with local health departments,
will be responsible for allocating vaccine to providers who agree to target
vaccine to persons in the  targeted groups or who care for persons in a
targeted group (e.g., allocate vaccine to obstetricians to reach pregnant
women). These decisions are likely to vary among states as situations and
plans vary among states. During a severe influenza pandemic, the most critical
workforce will likely be vaccinated in temporary closed mass vaccination
clinics or in existing occupational health clinics as coordinated through the
local/state health department.

Recommendations regarding those groups targeted for early vaccination are
tailored to pandemic severity and transmissibility and based on vaccine supply
in order to best achieve national pandemic response goals and objectives.  The
targeting approach will depend on the pandemic severity assessment and the
risk that the pandemic poses to groups at highest risk of complications from
influenza and those who maintain critical functions of society.  If the
severity of a pandemic is high or very high, it will also be important to
emphasize measures to preserve critical societal functions. However,
flexibility in planning is needed as it is not possible to predict in advance
the severity of a future pandemic, or the impact that the pandemic will have
on certain population sub-groups.  Therefore, this pre-pandemic interim
planning guidance will need to be re-assessed at the time of an emerging
pandemic.

### Footnote

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tier 1 includes the highest priority population groups to receive vaccination if there is limited vaccine supply for any level of pandemic severity. See Table 1.

Print Resources

![Pandemic flu guidance pdf](/flu/pandemic-
resources/images/Influenza_Guidance.jpg)

Pandemic Vaccine Targeting Guidance Cdc-pdf[2.14 MB, 25 Pages]

![Pandemic flu targeting checklist pdf](/flu/pandemic-
resources/images/2018-Influenza-Checklist.jpg)

Pandemic Influenza Vaccine Targeting Checklist Cdc-pdf[80.3 KB, 2 Pages]

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * PrevIntroduction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * NextVaccination of Ti...

Page last reviewed: October 24, 2018

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD)

home Pandemic Influenza

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pandemic Basicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Seasonal Flu vs Pandemic Flu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Questions and Answers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Past Pandemicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 2009 H1N1 Pandemicplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Â Summary of Progress since 2009
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Burden of Influenza A H1N1pdm09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2009 H1N1 Timeline
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2009 H1N1 Pandemic Image Gallery
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 1968 Pandemic (H3N2 virus)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 1957-1958 Pandemic (H2N2 virus)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * History of Flu Pandemic 1930 â Today
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 1918 Pandemicplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Historical Image Gallery
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 1918 Pandemic Timeline
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Infographic: Influenza Milestones
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Three Waves of the Pandemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * The Deadliest Flu: The Complete Story of the Discovery and Reconstruction of the 1918 Pandemic Virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 1918 Partner Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Key Messages for Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 1918 Webinar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 1918 Symposium
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 1918 Ask a Scientist Special Features
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National Pandemic Strategyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pandemic Intervals Framework
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Influenza Risk Assessment Tool
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pandemic Severity Assessment Framework
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Allocating & Targeting Pandemic Influenza Vaccineplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidance Development and Revision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccination of Tier 1 at All Pandemic Severities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Implementation of this Guidance during a Future Pandemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccination Tier 2 through 5 by Pandemic Severity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Next Steps for the U.S. Government, States, and Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * References
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Appendix A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Monitoring for Influenza Virusesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Current Situation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Viruses of Special Concernplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Influenza Risk Assessment Results 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Global Monitoring
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Planning and Preparedness Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Global Planning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Federal Resources for Planningplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * National Pandemic Influenza Plans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Regulations and Laws That May Apply During a Pandemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Surveillance, Epidemiology and Laboratory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Community Mitigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccine and Other Medical Countermeasures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Healthcare System Preparedness and Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Communication and Public Outreach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Pandemic Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC Community Flu 2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC FluAid 2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC FluSurge 2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC FluLabSurge 1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC FluWorkLoss 1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State and Local Government Planning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What CDC Doesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How CDC Protects Americans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Pandemic Flu Fightersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Amra Uzicanin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Anita Patel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Anne Schuchat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Dan Jernigan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * James Stevens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Martin Cetron
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stephen Redd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Terrence Tumpey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Are We Prepared
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Archived Documentsplus icon  
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Businesses and Employers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Community and Faith-Based Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Schools and Child Care Centers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State and Local Government
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Transportation and Travel Industryplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cargo Trucking During Pandemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cleaning after an Ill Cab Driver
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cleaning an IPOE Detention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cleaning Cargo Vessels
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cleaning Passenger Railcars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cleaning Transit Stations

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

![H1N1 Flu Pandemic 2009-2019: A Decade Later](/flu/images/H1N1-web-
badge-02.png)

Influenza Types

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Seasonal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Avian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Swine/Variant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pandemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Influenza in Animals

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM

