https://www.cdc.gov/flu/pandemic-resources/monitoring/irat-virus-summaries.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/flu/pandemic-resources/monitoring/irat-virus-summaries.htm    
                Description: Table showing assessments of influenza viruses using the Influenza Risk Assessment Tool (IRAT)     
                Keywords: virus,  influenza,  risk,  assessment,  IRAT,  summary,  potential emergence risk,  impact risk, Influenza Vaccination, Influenza (Flu), Pandemic Flu, Seasonal Flu, H1N1 Flu, Swine Influenza    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Influenza (Flu)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Summary of Influenza Risk Assessment Tool (IRAT) Results

EspaÃ±ol

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Table of Overall Summaries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Chart and Key of Average Risk Scores
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Virus Descriptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Related Links

The Influenza Risk Assessment Tool (IRAT) is an evaluation tool conceived by
CDC and further developed with assistance from global animal and human health
influenza experts. The IRAT is used to assess the potential pandemic risk
posed by influenza A viruses that are not currently circulating in people.
Input is provided by U.S. government animal and human health influenza
experts. Information about the IRAT is available at Influenza Risk Assessment
Tool (IRAT) Questions and Answers.

Below is a table of results for influenza A viruses that have been assessed
using IRAT because they serve as a representative of a particular subtype or
are of unique interest. Virus | Most Recent Date Evaluated | Potential
Emergence Risk | Potential Impact Risk | Overall Summary  
---|---|---|---|---  
H1N1 [A/duck/New York/1996] | Nov 2011 | 2.3 | 2.4 | Low  
H3N2 variant [A/Indiana/08/2011] | Dec 2012 | 6.0 | 4.5 | Moderate  
H3N2 [A/canine/Illinois/12191/2015] | June 2016 | 3.7 | 3.7 | Low  
H5N1 Clade 1 [A/Vietnam/1203/2004] | Nov 2011 | 5.2 | 6.6 | Moderate  
H5N1 [A/American green-winged teal/Washington/1957050/2014] | Mar 2015 | 3.6 |
4.1 | Low-Moderate  
H5N2 [A/Northern pintail/Washington/40964/2014] | Mar 2015 | 3.8 | 4.1 | Low-
Moderate  
H5N6 [A/Yunnan/14564/2015] - like | Apr 2016 | 5.0 | 6.6 | Moderate  
H5N8 [A/gyrfalcon/Washington/41088/2014] | Mar 2015 | 4.2 | 4.6 | Low-Moderate  
H7N7 [A/Netherlands/219/2003] | Jun 2012 | 4.6 | 5.8 | Moderate  
H7N8 [A/turkey/Indiana/1573-2/2016] | July 2017 | 3.4 | 3.9 | Low  
H7N9 [A/chicken/Tennessee/17-007431-3/2017] | Oct 2017 | 3.1 |  3.5 | Low  
H7N9 [A/ chicken/Tennessee /17-007147-2/2017] | Oct 2017 | 2.8 |  3.5 | Low  
H7N9 [A/Hong Kong/125/2017] | May 2017 | 6.5 | 7.5 | Moderate-High  
H7N9 [A/Shanghai/02/2013] | Apr 2016 | 6.4 | 7.2 | Moderate-High  
H9N2 G1 lineage [A/Bangladesh/0994/2011] | Feb 2014 | 5.6 | 5.4 | Moderate  
H10N8 [A/Jiangxi-Donghu/346/2013] | Feb 2014 | 4.3 | 6.0 | Moderate  
  
Top of Page

![IRAT emergence and impact](/flu/pandemic-resources/images/irat-emergence-
chart.jpg)

**» View Hi-Res Image**image icon

![IRAT Chart](/flu/pandemic-resources/images/irat-chart.jpg)

**» View Hi-Res Image**image icon

Top of Page

**H1N1** : [North American avian H1N1 [A/duck/New York/1996]

Avian influenza A viruses are designated as highly pathogenic avian influenza
(HPAI) or low pathogenicity avian influenza (LPAI) based on molecular
characteristics of the virus and the ability of the virus to cause disease and
death in chickens in a laboratory setting. North American avian H1N1
[A/duck/New York/1996] is a LPAI virus and in the context of the IRAT serves
as an example of a low risk virus.

**Summary:** The summary average risk score for the virus to achieve sustained
human-to-human transmission was in the low risk category (less than 3).
Similarly the average risk score for the virus to significantly impact public
health if it were to achieve sustained human-to-human transmission also falls
into the low risk range (less than 3).

**H3N2 Variant:** [A/Indiana/08/11]

Swine-origin influenza viruses do not normally infect humans. However,
sporadic human infections with swine-origin influenza viruses have occurred.
When this happens, these viruses are called "variant viruses." Influenza A
H3N2 variant viruses (also known as "H3N2v" viruses) with a hemagglutinin gene
belonging to cluster IV of swine influenza viruses and with the matrix (M)
gene from the 2009 H1N1 pandemic virus were first detected in people in July
2011. The viruses were first identified in U.S. pigs in 2010. In 2011, 12
cases of H3N2v infection were detected in the United States. In 2012, 309
cases of H3N2v infection across 12 states were detected. The latest risk
assessment for this virus was conducted in December 2012 and incorporated data
regarding population immunity that was lacking a year earlier.

**Summary:** The summary average risk score for the virus to achieve sustained
human-to-human transmission was in the moderate risk category (less than 6).
The summary average risk score for the virus to significantly impact public
health if it were to achieve sustained human-to-human transmission was in the
low-moderate risk category (less than 5).

**H3N2:** [A/canine/Illinois/12191/2015]

The H3N2 canine influenza virus is an avian influenza virus that adapted to
infect dogs. This virus is different from human seasonal H3N2 viruses. Canine
influenza A H3N2 virus was first detected in dogs in South Korea in 2007 and
has since been reported in China and Thailand. It was first detected in dogs
in the United States in April 2015. H3N2 canine influenza has reportedly
infected some cats as well as dogs. There have been no reports of human cases.

**Summary:** The average summary risk score for the virus to achieve sustained
human-to-human transmission was low risk (less than 4). The average summary
risk score for the virus to significantly impact public health if it were to
achieve sustained human-to-human transmission was in the low risk range (less
than 4). For a full report, click here pdf icon[186 KB, 4 pages].

**H5N1 clade 1:** [A/Vietnam/1203/2004]

The first human cases of highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) H5N1 virus
were reported from Hong Kong in 1997. Since 2003, HPAI H5N1 viruses have
caused over 860 laboratory-confirmed human cases; mortality among these cases
was high. A risk assessment of this H5N1 clade 1 virus was conducted in 2011
soon after the IRAT was first developed and when 12 hemagglutinin (HA) clades
were officially recognized.

**Summary:** The summary average risk score for the virus to achieve sustained
human-to-human transmission was in the moderate risk category (less than 6).
The summary average risk score for the virus to significantly impact public
health if it were to achieve sustained human-to-human transmission was in the
high-moderate risk category (less than 7).

**H5N1:** [A/American green winged teal/Washington/1957050/2014]

In December 2014, an H5N1 highly pathogenic avian influenza virus was first
isolated from an American green-winged teal in the state of Washington. This
virus was a reassortant virus containing four genes of Eurasian lineage (PB2,
HA, NP and M) and four genes of North American lineage (PB1, PA, NA and NS).
In February 2015, the Canadian government reported isolating a similar virus
from a backyard flock in the Fraser Valley. When this risk assessment was
conducted in 2015, these were the only reported detections of this specific
virus. There have been no reports of human cases.

**Summary:** The summary average risk score for the virus to achieve sustained
human-to-human transmission was in the low risk category (less than 4). The
summary average risk score for the virus to significantly impact public health
if it were to achieve sustained human-to-human transmission was in the low-
moderate risk category (less than 5).

**H5N2:** [A/Northern pintail/Washington/40964/2014]

In December 2014, an H5N2 highly pathogenic avian influenza virus was first
reported by the Canadian government from commercial poultry in the Fraser
Valley. Subsequently, this virus was isolated from wild birds, captive wild
birds, backyard flocks and commercial flocks in the United States. This virus
is a reassortant virus composed of five Eurasian lineage (PB2, PA, HA, M and
NS) genes and three North American lineage (PB1, NP and NA) genes. There have
been no reports of human cases.

**Summary:** The average summary risk score for the virus to achieve sustained
human-to-human transmission was low risk (less than 4).The average summary
risk score for the virus to significantly impact public health if it were to
achieve sustained human-to-human transmission was in the low-moderate risk
range (less than 5).

**H5N6:** [A/Yunnan/14564/2015 (H5N6-like)]

Between January 2014 and May 2019, there have been 23 human cases of H5N6
highly pathogenic avian influenza reported and 14 of the cases were fatal.
Avian outbreaks of this virus were first reported from China in 2013.
Subsequently, avian outbreaks have been reported in several countries through
2019.

**Summary:** The summary average risk score for the virus to achieve sustained
human-to-human transmission was in the moderate range (less than 6).The
average summary risk score for the virus to significantly impact on public
health if it were to achieve sustained human-to-human transmission fell in the
moderate range (less than 7).

**H5N8:** [A/gyrfalcon/Washington/41088/2014]

In December 2014, an H5N8 highly pathogenic avian influenza virus was first
isolated from a sample collected in the United States from a captive
gyrfalcon. Subsequently, this virus was detected in wild birds, captive wild
birds, backyard flocks and commercial flocks in the United States. This virus
(clade 2.3.4.4) is similar to Eurasian lineage H5N8 viruses that have been
detected in South Korea, China, Japan, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and
Germany in late 2014-early 2015.There have been no reports of human cases.

**Summary:** The average risk score for the virus to achieve sustained human-
to-human transmission was in the low-moderate range< (less than 5). The
average summary risk score for the virus to significantly impact public health
if it were to achieve sustained human-to-human transmission fell in the low-
moderate range (less than 5).

**H7N7:** [A/Netherlands/219/03]

In 2003 the Netherlands reported highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) in
approximately 255 commercial flocks.Coinciding with human activities around
these infected flocks, 89 human cases of H7N7 were identified.Cases primarily
reported conjunctivitis, although a few also reported mild influenza-like
illness.There was one death.

**Summary:** The summary average risk score for this virus to achieve
sustained human-to-human transmission was in the low-moderate risk range (less
than 5). The summary average risk score for this virus to significantly impact
the public's health if it were to achieve sustained human-to-human
transmission fell in the moderate risk range (less than 7).

**H7N8** : [A/turkey/Indiana/1573-2/2016]

In January 2016, a highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) H7N8 virus of
North American lineage was identified in a commercial turkey flock in Indiana.
Subsequent investigation of the affected farm and surrounding farms revealed
no additional HPAI viruses, but low pathogenicity avian influenza (LPAI)
viruses with highly similar genomes to the HPAI virus were detected in 9 other
turkey flocks in the area. There were no reports of human cases associated
with these viruses. A representative LPAI virus from the outbreak,
A/turkey/Indiana/1573-2/2016, was assessed using IRAT.

**Summary:** A risk assessment of LPAI virus, A/turkey/Indiana/1573-2/2016,
was conducted in July 2017. The overall IRAT risk assessment score for this
virus falls into the low risk category (< 4). The summary average risk score
for the virus to achieve sustained human-to-human transmission is in the low
risk category (3.4). The summary average risk score for the virus to
significantly impact public health if it were to achieve sustained human-to-
human transmission was also in the low risk category (3.9).

**H7N9:**  Asian avian [A/Hong Kong/125/2017]

Low pathogenicity avian influenza (LPAI) H7N9 viruses were first reported from
China in March 2013. These viruses were first scored using the IRAT in April
2013, and then annually in 2014, 2015, and 2016 with no change in overall risk
scores. Between October 2016 and May 2017, two divergent lineages of these
viruses were detected - the Pearl River Delta lineage and the Yangtze River
Delta lineage. The IRAT was used to assess LPAI H7N9 [A/Hong Kong/125/2017], a
representative of the Yangtze River Delta viruses.

**Summary:** A risk assessment of H7N9 [A/Hong Kong/125/2017] was conducted in
May 2017. The overall IRAT risk assessment score for this virus falls into the
moderate-high risk category and is similar to the scores for the previous H7N9
viruses. The summary average risk score for the virus to achieve sustained
human-to-human transmission is in the moderate risk category (less than 7).
The summary average risk score for the virus to significantly impact public
health if it were to achieve sustained human-to-human transmission was in the
moderate-high risk category (less than 8). For a full report, click here pdf
icon[262 KB, 4 pages].

**H7N9:** Avian H7N9 [A/Shanghai/02/2013]

On 31 March 2013, the China Health and Family Planning Commission notified the
World Health Organization (WHO) of three cases of human infection with
influenza H7N9. As of May 2019, the WHO has received reports of 1,568 cases,
615 have died. This low pathogenicity avian influenza virus was rescored most
recently in April 2016 with no substantive change in risk scores since May
2013.

**Summary:** The summary average risk score for the virus to achieve sustained
human-to-human transmission was in the moderate risk category (less than 7).
The average risk score for the virus to significantly impact public health if
it were to achieve sustained human-to-human transmission fell in the high-
moderate risk range (less than 8).

**H7N9** : Low Pathogenicity North American avian
[A/chicken/Tennessee/17-007431-3/2017]

Surveillance conducted in March 2017 during the investigation of a highly
pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) A(H7N9) virus in commercial poultry in
Tennessee revealed the contemporaneous presence of North American lineage low
pathogenicity avian influenza (LPAI) A(H7N9) virus in commercial and backyard
poultry flocks in Tennessee and three other states. The outbreak in poultry
appeared limited with no further detections in subsequent surveillance. There
were no reports of human cases associated with this virus.

**Summary:**   A risk assessment of this North American lineage LPAI A(H7N9)
virus was conducted in October 2017. The overall IRAT risk assessment score
for this virus falls into the low risk category (< 4). The summary average
risk score for the virus to achieve sustained human-to-human transmission was
in the low risk category (score 3.1).  The average risk score for the virus to
significantly impact public health if it were to achieve sustained human-to-
human transmission was between the low to low-moderate range (score 3.5). For
a full report, click here pdf icon[228 KB, 4 pages].

**H7N9** : Highly Pathogenic North American avian
[A/chicken/Tennessee/17-007147-2/2017]

In March 2017, the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) reported the
detection of a highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) A(H7N9) virus in 2
commercial poultry flocks in Tennessee. Full genome sequence analysis
indicated that all eight gene segments of the virus were of North American
wild bird lineage and genetically distinct from the lineage of influenza
A(H7N9) viruses infecting poultry and humans in China since 2013. The outbreak
investigation revealed that a related North American low pathogenicity avian
influenza A(H7N9) was circulating in poultry prior to the detection of the
HPAI A(H7N9). There were no reports of human cases associated with this virus.

**Summary:**   A risk assessment this North American lineage HPAI A(H7N9)
virus was conducted in October 2017. The overall IRAT risk assessment score
for this virus falls into the low risk category (< 4). The summary average
risk score for the virus to achieve sustained human-to-human transmission is
in the low risk category (2.8). The summary average risk score for the virus
to significantly impact public health if it were to achieve sustained human-
to-human transmission was also in the low risk category (3.5). For a full
report, click here pdf icon[225 KB, 4 pages].

**H9N2:** Avian H9N2 G1 lineage [A/Bangladesh/0994/2011]

Human infections with influenza A(H9N2) virus have been reported sporadically,
cases reportedly exhibited mild influenza-like illness. Historically, these
low pathogenicity avian influenza viruses have been isolated from wild and
domestic birds. In response to these reports, a risk assessment of this H9N2
influenza virus was conducted in 2014.

**Summary:** The summary average risk score for the virus to achieve sustained
human-to-human transmission was in the moderate risk category (less than 6).
The summary average risk score for the virus to significantly impact public
health if it were to achieve sustained human-to-human transmission also fell
in the moderate risk range (less than 6).

**H10N8:** Avian H10N8 [A/Jiangxi-Donghu/346/2013]

Three human infections with influenza A(H10N8) virus were reported by the
China Health and Family Planning Commission in 2013 and 2014. All cases were
hospitalized and two died. Historically, low pathogenicity avian influenza H10
and N8 viruses have been recovered from birds. A risk assessment of the H10N8
influenza was conducted in 2014.

**Summary:** The summary average risk score for the virus to achieve sustained
human-to-human transmission was low-moderate (less than 5). The average risk
score for the virus to significantly impact public health if it were to
achieve sustained human-to-human transmission was in the moderate risk range
(less than 7).

Top of Page

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Influenza Risk Assessment Tool
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pandemic Intervals Framework
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Severity Assessment Framework 

Page last reviewed: October 9, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD)

home Pandemic Influenza

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pandemic Basicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Seasonal Flu vs Pandemic Flu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Questions and Answers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Past Pandemicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 2009 H1N1 Pandemicplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Â Summary of Progress since 2009
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Burden of Influenza A H1N1pdm09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2009 H1N1 Timeline
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2009 H1N1 Pandemic Image Gallery
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 1968 Pandemic (H3N2 virus)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 1957-1958 Pandemic (H2N2 virus)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * History of Flu Pandemic 1930 â Today
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 1918 Pandemicplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Historical Image Gallery
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 1918 Pandemic Timeline
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Infographic: Influenza Milestones
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Three Waves of the Pandemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * The Deadliest Flu: The Complete Story of the Discovery and Reconstruction of the 1918 Pandemic Virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 1918 Partner Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Key Messages for Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 1918 Webinar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 1918 Symposium
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 1918 Ask a Scientist Special Features
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National Pandemic Strategyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pandemic Intervals Framework
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Influenza Risk Assessment Tool
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pandemic Severity Assessment Framework
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Allocating & Targeting Pandemic Influenza Vaccineplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidance Development and Revision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccination of Tier 1 at All Pandemic Severities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Implementation of this Guidance during a Future Pandemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccination Tier 2 through 5 by Pandemic Severity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Next Steps for the U.S. Government, States, and Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * References
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Appendix A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Monitoring for Influenza Virusesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Current Situation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Viruses of Special Concernplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Influenza Risk Assessment Results 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Global Monitoring
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Planning and Preparedness Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Global Planning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Federal Resources for Planningplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * National Pandemic Influenza Plans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Regulations and Laws That May Apply During a Pandemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Surveillance, Epidemiology and Laboratory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Community Mitigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccine and Other Medical Countermeasures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Healthcare System Preparedness and Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Communication and Public Outreach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Pandemic Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC Community Flu 2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC FluAid 2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC FluSurge 2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC FluLabSurge 1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC FluWorkLoss 1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State and Local Government Planning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What CDC Doesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How CDC Protects Americans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Pandemic Flu Fightersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Amra Uzicanin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Anita Patel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Anne Schuchat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Dan Jernigan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * James Stevens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Martin Cetron
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stephen Redd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Terrence Tumpey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Are We Prepared
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Archived Documentsplus icon  
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Businesses and Employers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Community and Faith-Based Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Schools and Child Care Centers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State and Local Government
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Transportation and Travel Industryplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cargo Trucking During Pandemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cleaning after an Ill Cab Driver
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cleaning an IPOE Detention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cleaning Cargo Vessels
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cleaning Passenger Railcars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cleaning Transit Stations

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

![H1N1 Flu Pandemic 2009-2019: A Decade Later](/flu/images/H1N1-web-
badge-02.png)

Influenza Types

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Seasonal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Avian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Swine/Variant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pandemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Influenza in Animals

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

image PDF

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM

