https://www.cdc.gov/flu/pandemic-resources/1918-commemoration/historical-images.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/flu/pandemic-resources/1918-commemoration/historical-images.htm    
                Description: None    
                Keywords: 1918 Influenza Pandemic, Flu Pandmic    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Influenza (Flu)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# 1918 Historical Image Gallery

EspaÃ±ol

Minus

Related Pages

![Red Cross Volunteers- Boston, MA](/flu/pandemic-
resources/1918-commemoration/images/historical-images/boston-red-cross-
pandemic-flu.jpg)

### Red Cross Volunteers - Boston, MA

Massachusetts had been drained of physicians and nurses due to calls for
military service, and no longer had enough personnel to meet the civilian
demand for healthcare during the 1918 flu pandemic. Governor McCall asked
every able-bodied person across the state with medical training to offer their
aid in fighting the epidemic. Boston Red Cross volunteers assembled gauze
influenza masks for use at hard-hit, Camp Devens in Massachusetts.

![Nurse Advertisement- Chicago, IL ](/flu/pandemic-
resources/1918-commemoration/images/historical-images/chicago-nurse-pandemic-
flu.jpg)

### Nurse Advertisement - Chicago, IL

Advertisement for the Chicago School of Nursing. Nurses were in short supply
and high demand during the epidemic.

![Local Barber – Cincinnati, OH](/flu/pandemic-
resources/1918-commemoration/images/historical-images/cincinnati-barber-
pandemic-flu.jpg)

### Local Barber - Cincinnati, OH

A Cincinnati barber wears a mask while giving a customer a shave. Cincinnati's
barbers and downtown hotel employees were advised to wear a mask to "help in
the fight to stamp out influenza".

![Flu Prevention Streetcar Sign- Cincinnati, OH](/flu/pandemic-
resources/1918-commemoration/images/historical-images/cincinnati-flu-
flyer.jpg)

### Flu Prevention Streetcar Sign - Cincinnati, OH

A Cincinnati Board of Health Streetcar sign during the epidemic, educating
passengers on how to prevent influenza, pneumonia, and tuberculosis.
Cincinnati's Health Officer and Mayor were quick to point out that the city
was not in the midst of a public health crisis at the time. They told the
press that "Cincinnati is endeavoring to prevent an epidemic of Spanish
Influenza. There is no epidemic here. We are doing what other cities should
have done - we are preventing."

![Red Cross Ambulance Demonstration- Washington, DC](/flu/pandemic-
resources/1918-commemoration/images/historical-images/dc-ambulance-demo-
pandemic-flu.jpg)

### Red Cross Ambulance Demonstration - Washington, DC

Demonstration at the Red Cross Emergency Ambulance Station in Washington, DC
during the influenza epidemic. As the epidemic grew and total case number
rose, the Red Cross put out desperate calls for trained nurses as well as
untrained volunteers to help at the emergency centers. In October of 1918,
Congress approved a $1 million budget for the U. S. Public Health Service to
recruit 1000 medical doctors and over 700 registered nurses. Nurses were
scarce at the time.

![Pharmacist at People’s Drug Store No. 5 – Washington, D.C.](/flu/pandemic-
resources/1918-commemoration/images/historical-images/dc-pharmacist-pandemic-
flu.jpg)

### Pharmacist - Washington D.C.

During the epidemic, residents flocked to druggists to purchase a host of
medications, trying to find a treatment or cure for influenza.

![Red Cross Volunteers- Detroit, MI](/flu/pandemic-
resources/1918-commemoration/images/historical-images/detroit-red-cross-
pandemic-flu.jpg)

### Red Cross Volunteers - Detroit, MI

Motor Corps and Canteen volunteers from the Detroit chapter of the American
Red Cross, taking a break from delivering supplies to flu victims. To prepare
Detroit for what was to come from the pandemic, the Red Cross and Department
of Health nurses cooperated together for home visits, food preparation and
childcare.

![Street Sweeper- New York, NY](/flu/pandemic-
resources/1918-commemoration/images/historical-images/ny-street-sweeper-
pandemic-flu.jpg)

### Street Sweeper - New York, NY

A New York City street sweeper wears a mask while on the job, October 1918.
Street sweepers were also arranged to work as gravediggers to assist with the
bodies of influenza victims.

![Open-air Police Court- San Francisco, CA](/flu/pandemic-
resources/1918-commemoration/images/historical-images/san-francisco-police-
pandemic-flu.jpg)

### Open-air Police Court - San Francisco, CA

As the number of cases in San Francisco rose sharply, the city Board of Health
issued a series of recommendations to the public on how to avoid contracting
influenza including avoiding the use of streetcars during rush hour times,
avoiding crowds, and paying attention to personal hygiene. To prevent crowding
indoors, judges held outdoor court sessions. The Board of Health recommended
all services and socials be held in the open air, if they weren't cancelled.

![Ambulance Duty – St. Louis, MS](/flu/pandemic-
resources/1918-commemoration/images/historical-images/st-louis-ambulance-
panemic-flu.jpg)

### Ambulance Duty - St. Louis, MS

The Motor Corps of St. Louis chapter of the American Red Cross on ambulance
duty during the influenza epidemic, October 1918. The Red Cross motor corps
recruited volunteer drivers and automobiles to supplement ambulances and
chauffeur nurses from one quarantined house to the next. Through this
volunteer system, approximately 40 nurses cared for about 3,000 patients who
otherwise had no access to private nursing.

![Red Cross Volunteers - Boston, MA](/flu/pandemic-
resources/1918-commemoration/images/historical-images/boston-red-cross-
pandemic-flu.jpg)

Red Cross Volunteers - Boston, MA

Massachusetts had been drained of physicians and nurses due to calls for
military service, and no longer had enough personnel to meet the civilian
demand for healthcare during the 1918 flu pandemic. Governor McCall asked
every able-bodied person across the state with medical training to offer their
aid in fighting the epidemic. Boston Red Cross volunteers assembled gauze
influenza masks for use at hard-hit, Camp Devens in Massachusetts.

![Local Barber - Cincinnati, OH](/flu/pandemic-
resources/1918-commemoration/images/historical-images/cincinnati-barber-
pandemic-flu.jpg)

Local Barber - Cincinnati, OH

A Cincinnati barber wears a mask while giving a customer a shave. Cincinnati's
barbers and downtown hotel employees were advised to wear a mask to "help in
the fight to stamp out influenza".

![Red Cross Ambulance Demonstration - Washington, DC](/flu/pandemic-
resources/1918-commemoration/images/historical-images/dc-ambulance-demo-
pandemic-flu.jpg)

Red Cross Ambulance Demonstration - Washington, DC

Demonstration at the Red Cross Emergency Ambulance Station in Washington, DC
during the influenza epidemic. As the epidemic grew and total case number
rose, the Red Cross put out desperate calls for trained nurses as well as
untrained volunteers to help at the emergency centers. In October of 1918,
Congress approved a $1 million budget for the U. S. Public Health Service to
recruit 1000 medical doctors and over 700 registered nurses. Nurses were
scarce at the time.

![Red Cross Volunteers - Detroit, MI](/flu/pandemic-
resources/1918-commemoration/images/historical-images/detroit-red-cross-
pandemic-flu.jpg)

Red Cross Volunteers - Detroit, MI

Motor Corps and Canteen volunteers from the Detroit chapter of the American
Red Cross, taking a break from delivering supplies to flu victims. To prepare
Detroit for what was to come from the pandemic, the Red Cross and Department
of Health nurses cooperated together for home visits, food preparation and
childcare.

![Open-air Police Court - San Francisco, CA](/flu/pandemic-
resources/1918-commemoration/images/historical-images/san-francisco-police-
pandemic-flu.jpg)

Open-air Police Court - San Francisco, CA

As the number of cases in San Francisco rose sharply, the city Board of Health
issued a series of recommendations to the public on how to avoid contracting
influenza including avoiding the use of streetcars during rush hour times,
avoiding crowds, and paying attention to personal hygiene. To prevent crowding
indoors, judges held outdoor court sessions. The Board of Health recommended
all services and socials be held in the open air, if they weren't cancelled.

![Nurse Advertisement - Chicago, IL ](/flu/pandemic-
resources/1918-commemoration/images/historical-images/chicago-nurse-pandemic-
flu.jpg)

Nurse Advertisement - Chicago, IL

Advertisement for the Chicago School of Nursing. Nurses were in short supply
and high demand during the epidemic.

![Flu Prevention Streetcar Sign - Cincinnati, OH](/flu/pandemic-
resources/1918-commemoration/images/historical-images/cincinnati-flu-
flyer.jpg)

Flu Prevention Streetcar Sign - Cincinnati, OH

A Cincinnati Board of Health Streetcar sign during the epidemic, educating
passengers on how to prevent influenza, pneumonia, and tuberculosis.
Cincinnati's Health Officer and Mayor were quick to point out that the city
was not in the midst of a public health crisis at the time. They told the
press that "Cincinnati is endeavoring to prevent an epidemic of Spanish
Influenza. There is no epidemic here. We are doing what other cities should
have done - we are preventing."

![Pharmacist - Washington D.C.](/flu/pandemic-
resources/1918-commemoration/images/historical-images/dc-pharmacist-pandemic-
flu.jpg)

Pharmacist - Washington D.C.

During the epidemic, residents flocked to druggists to purchase a host of
medications, trying to find a treatment or cure for influenza.

![Street Sweeper - New York, NY](/flu/pandemic-
resources/1918-commemoration/images/historical-images/ny-street-sweeper-
pandemic-flu.jpg)

Street Sweeper - New York, NY

A New York City street sweeper wears a mask while on the job, October 1918.
Street sweepers were also arranged to work as gravediggers to assist with the
bodies of influenza victims.

![Ambulance Duty - St. Louis, MS](/flu/pandemic-
resources/1918-commemoration/images/historical-images/st-louis-ambulance-
panemic-flu.jpg)

Ambulance Duty - St. Louis, MS

The Motor Corps of St. Louis chapter of the American Red Cross on ambulance
duty during the influenza epidemic, October 1918. The Red Cross motor corps
recruited volunteer drivers and automobiles to supplement ambulances and
chauffeur nurses from one quarantined house to the next. Through this
volunteer system, approximately 40 nurses cared for about 3,000 patients who
otherwise had no access to private nursing.

Page last reviewed: March 2, 2018

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD)

home Pandemic Influenza

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pandemic Basicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Seasonal Flu vs Pandemic Flu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Questions and Answers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Past Pandemicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 2009 H1N1 Pandemicplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Â Summary of Progress since 2009
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Burden of Influenza A H1N1pdm09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2009 H1N1 Timeline
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2009 H1N1 Pandemic Image Gallery
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 1968 Pandemic (H3N2 virus)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 1957-1958 Pandemic (H2N2 virus)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * History of Flu Pandemic 1930 â Today
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 1918 Pandemicplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Historical Image Gallery
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 1918 Pandemic Timeline
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Infographic: Influenza Milestones
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Three Waves of the Pandemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * The Deadliest Flu: The Complete Story of the Discovery and Reconstruction of the 1918 Pandemic Virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 1918 Partner Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Key Messages for Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 1918 Webinar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 1918 Symposium
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 1918 Ask a Scientist Special Features
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National Pandemic Strategyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pandemic Intervals Framework
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Influenza Risk Assessment Tool
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pandemic Severity Assessment Framework
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Allocating & Targeting Pandemic Influenza Vaccineplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidance Development and Revision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccination of Tier 1 at All Pandemic Severities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Implementation of this Guidance during a Future Pandemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccination Tier 2 through 5 by Pandemic Severity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Next Steps for the U.S. Government, States, and Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * References
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Appendix A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Monitoring for Influenza Virusesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Current Situation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Viruses of Special Concernplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Influenza Risk Assessment Results 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Global Monitoring
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Planning and Preparedness Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Global Planning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Federal Resources for Planningplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * National Pandemic Influenza Plans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Regulations and Laws That May Apply During a Pandemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Surveillance, Epidemiology and Laboratory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Community Mitigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccine and Other Medical Countermeasures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Healthcare System Preparedness and Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Communication and Public Outreach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Pandemic Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC Community Flu 2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC FluAid 2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC FluSurge 2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC FluLabSurge 1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC FluWorkLoss 1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State and Local Government Planning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What CDC Doesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How CDC Protects Americans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Pandemic Flu Fightersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Amra Uzicanin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Anita Patel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Anne Schuchat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Dan Jernigan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * James Stevens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Martin Cetron
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stephen Redd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Terrence Tumpey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Are We Prepared
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Archived Documentsplus icon  
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Businesses and Employers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Community and Faith-Based Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Schools and Child Care Centers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State and Local Government
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Transportation and Travel Industryplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cargo Trucking During Pandemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cleaning after an Ill Cab Driver
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cleaning an IPOE Detention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cleaning Cargo Vessels
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cleaning Passenger Railcars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cleaning Transit Stations

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

![H1N1 Flu Pandemic 2009-2019: A Decade Later](/flu/images/H1N1-web-
badge-02.png)

Influenza Types

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Seasonal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Avian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Swine/Variant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pandemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Influenza in Animals

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM

