https://www.cdc.gov/flu/pandemic-resources/national-strategy/planning-guidance/appendix-a.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/flu/pandemic-resources/national-strategy/planning-guidance/appendix-a.html    
                Description: Everything you need to know about the flu illness, including symptoms, treatment and prevention.    
                Keywords: influenza, flu, spanish flu, avian flu, asian flu, influenza-like illness, ILI, influenza a, influenza b, influenza c, influenza activity, influenza branch, influenza pandemic, influenza epidemic, flu vaccine, flu shot, antiviral, antiviral drug, antiviral medications, antiviral agents, influenza surveillance, strain selection, hong kong flu, swine flu, hemagglutinin, neuraminidase, respiratory illness, guillain barre syndrome, stomach flu, influenza summary update, amantadine, rimantadine, zanamivir, oseltamivir, influenza prevention, influenza control, negative rna strand virus, antigenic drift, antigenic shift, CDC    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Influenza (Flu)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Appendix A

EspaÃ±ol

Minus

Table of Contents

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Introduction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidance Development and Revision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Vaccination of Tier 1 at All Pandemic Severities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Implementation of this Guidance during a Future Pandemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Vaccination Tier 2 through 5 by Pandemic Severity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Next Steps for the U.S. Government, States, and Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * References
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Appendix A

Minus

Related Pages

![Pregnant women in a class](/flu/pandemic-resources/images/pregnant-
women.jpg)

### Description and Rationale for Population Groups Targeted for Pandemic
Vaccination

Guidance for targeting vaccination defines population groups in four broad
categories that correspond with the objectives of a pandemic vaccination
program - to protect people who: 1) maintain homeland and national security,
2) provide health care and community support services, 3) maintain critical
functions of society, and 4) are in the general population. The population
groups are to be vaccinated in "tiers". Reflecting public values and the need
to address multiple important objectives with the pandemic vaccination
program, each of the top tiers includes populations from all four categories
for a very severe pandemic. The table below provides further definition of
population groups for pandemic vaccination by tier for a pandemic with a high
or very high level of severity, the estimated size of the group, and a brief
description of the working group's rationale for prioritizing that group. For
planning purposes, note that the estimated number of persons in occupational
groups are only those who are critical to maintaining essential functions.
This interim guidance and table are provided for planning purposes. The
Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP), a federal advisory
committee that develops recommendations for the director of the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) on use of vaccines to control diseases in
the United States, would serve as the advisory committee for developing
recommendations for use of pandemic vaccine. If needed during a future
pandemic, more specific guidance will be provided by CDC; the tiered schema
outlined in this document will be adapted to provide guidance on targeted
vaccination during the pandemic.

### Table 3. Tiers, definition, and rationale for target population groups
during a high/very high severity pandemic

**Tier (High/Very High Severity)** | **Group1** | **Definition** | **Estimated
Number in Group** | **Rationale**  
---|---|---|---|---  
1 | Deployed and mission critical personnel for national security | Military
forces and other mission critical personnel not limited to active duty
military or U.S. government employees.  Includes some diplomatic and
intelligence service personnel, and public and private sector functions
identified by federal agencies as unique and critical to national security |
850,000 | Critical to protect national security, unable to tolerate projected
pandemic personnel loss and fulfill mission, potential greater risk of
infection due to geographic location and crowded living or working conditions.  
1 | Public health personnel | Public health responders at federal, state and
local levels | 300,000 | Essential to implementing the pandemic response,
including the vaccination program and other pharmaceutical and non-
pharmaceutical response measures; also provide care for low income and
underserved populations; personnel at increased risk of exposure to persons
with pandemic illness, and also increased work load to respond to the
pandemic.  
1 | Inpatient healthcare providers | Includes two-thirds of personnel at acute
care hospitals who would be identified by their institution as critical to
provision of inpatient health care services; primarily will include persons
providing care with direct patient exposure but also will include persons
essential to maintaining hospital infrastructure. | 3,200,000 | Maintaining
quality inpatient health care is critical to reducing mortality from pandemic
influenza and from other illnesses that will occur concurrently with the
pandemic; inpatient healthcare burden will likely be markedly increased during
a pandemic; studies show health outcomes are associated with staff-to-patient
ratio; personnel have increased risk of exposure, including to infectious
aerosols; infected healthcare personnel may transmit infection to vulnerable
persons hospitalized for non-influenza illnesses.  
1 | Outpatient and home health providers | Includes two-thirds of personnel
identified by their organization at outpatient facilities, including but not
limited to physicians' offices, primary care clinics, dialysis centers, urgent
care centers, retail health clinics, and blood donation facilities; and
skilled home health care personnel providing care with direct patient
exposure. | 2,600,000 | Maintaining outpatient and home health care is
critical to reducing pandemic mortality and morbidity and reducing the burden
on inpatient services; outpatient healthcare burden will be markedly increased
during a pandemic; personnel have increased risk of exposure, possibly
including to infectious aerosols; infected health care personnel may transmit
infection to vulnerable persons receiving care for non-influenza illness.  
1 | Health care providers in long term care facilities (LTCFs) | Includes two-
thirds of personnel at LTCFs identified by their organization as critical to
the provision of care. | 1,600,000 | Essential to provide care to more than 3
million persons in LTCFs who are particularly vulnerable to influenza illness
and death; risk of pandemic outbreaks in LTCFs may best be reduced by
vaccinating staff and limiting exposure of residents to infection; if
outbreaks occur, personnel have increased risk of exposure, possibly including
to infectious aerosols, and can spread pandemic influenza to their high-risk
patients.  
1 | Pharmacists and pharmacy technicians | Includes pharmacists dispensing
drugs at retail locations and pharmacy technicians who interact with the
public and are essential for pharmacy operations (note that pharmacists in
hospitals or outpatient centers may be targeted as part of those groups). |
725,000 | Essential to dispense medications and administer vaccinations for
pandemic influenza and other illnesses; demand for pharmacist services would
be expected to increase during a pandemic. Pharmacists and pharmacy
technicians may have increased exposure risk to persons with pandemic
infection given their exposure to the public for provision of services.  
1 | Emergency services and public safety sector personnel (e.g. emergency
medical service, law enforcement and fire services) | Includes groups
supporting emergency response and public safety.  Emergency medical service
personnel include those who are fire department based, hospital-based, or
private; firefighters include professional and volunteers; law enforcement
local police, sheriff officers, state troopers; and corrections officers
include those in prisons and jails. | 2,000,000 | Provide critical public
safety and emergency response services; contribute to pandemic response
activities by maintaining public order and contributing to medical care
services; increased occupational risk for emergency medical services due to
exposure to persons with pandemic illness.  
1 | Manufacturers of pandemic vaccine and antiviral drugs | Includes critical
personnel required for ongoing production of pandemic medical countermeasures
to support a pandemic response. | 50,000 | Reducing pandemic health impacts
requires production of pandemic vaccine and anti-influenza drugs.  
1 | Pregnant women | Women at any stage of pregnancy | 4,000,000 | Pregnant
women are at high risk of severe complications or death from pandemic
influenza due to immunological, circulatory, and respiratory changes that
occur during pregnancy; vaccinating pregnant women also reduces the risk of
influenza in infants up to 6 months of age.  
1 | Infants and toddlers (6-35 months old) | Infants and toddlers in the
specified age group | 11,000,000 | Persons in this age group are at high risk
of severe complications or death from pandemic influenza; vaccination may
require a lower dose than used to protect older children and adults; public
values prioritize children highest among groups defined by age and disease
status.  
2 | Essential military support and sustainment personnel | Military and other
essential personnel needed to support and sustain deployed forces | 650,000 |
Maintaining function is essential to mission success for deployed personnel;
risk of infection may be less based on geographical location and living
conditions.  
2 | Intelligence services | Critical personnel in the intelligence community
serving at domestic and international posts that are not included in tier 1 |
150,000 | Essential to homeland and national security; opportunities for
social distancing limited because of inability to telework due to need for
secure facilities; some personnel may be at increased risk based on
geographical location.  
2 | National Guard personnel | National Guard Personnel not included in tier
1, but who are likely to be activated to maintain public order during a
pandemic or to support pandemic response services or critical infrastructure |
500,000 | Likely to be activated in a pandemic to support critical response or
community functions; may be at increased risk of exposure and infection based
on mission  
2 | Other domestic national security personnel | Includes other groups that
are essential to national security such as guards at nuclear facilities and
critical personnel providing border protection. | 150,000 | Essential to
national and homeland security and includes critical personnel in agencies
providing U.S. border security  
2 | Community support service personnel (emergency management and community
and faith-based support and response organizations) | Personnel from community
organizations who will provide essential support and have direct contact with
persons and families affected during community pandemic outbreaks, and
emergency management personnel who coordinate pandemic response and support
activities | 600,000 | Community level support will be critical for persons
who are ill and isolated in their homes or are complying with recommendations
for voluntary household quarantine during community pandemic outbreaks, for
elderly persons who live alone and cannot or may be afraid of leaving their
home during a pandemic, for persons who are homeless, and for other vulnerable
populations; support may include providing food and medications, as well as
other social and mental health services; personnel will be at increased risk
of exposure to ill persons and, if infected could transmit illness to a high
risk population.  
2 | Mortuary services personnel | Includes funeral directors | 50,000 |
Increased burden likely during a pandemic; may have increased occupational
exposure to ill family members of deceased persons.  
2 | Communications,  information technology (IT), electricity, nuclear, oil &
gas, and water sector personnel, financial clearing and settlement personnel |
Personnel who are critical to support essential communications, information
technology, utility, financial and other services provided by the defined
sectors | 2,200,000 | These sectors provide products and services that
generally cannot be stored, are required for community health and safety, and
are essential to the functioning of other critical infrastructure sectors.  
2 | Critical government personnel - operational and regulatory functions |
Federal, state, tribal, and tribal government employees and contractors who
perform critical regulatory or operational functions required for essential
operations of other critical infrastructure sectors | 425,000 | Government
personnel are critical for implementing and monitoring components of the
pandemic response and performing regulatory or operational functions essential
to critical infrastructure that protect public health and safety and preserve
security.  
2 | Household contacts of infants under 6 months old. | Household contacts of
infants under 6 months old | 4,500,000 | Infants under 6 months old cannot be
directly protected by vaccination, and influenza antiviral drugs are not
approved for infants < 2 weeks old; therefore, vaccinating contacts can
protect infants. Public values prioritize protection of children highest among
groups at increased age risk of influenza-related complications based on age
or disease status.  
2 | Children 3 - 18 years old with a high risk medical condition | Children in
the specified age group with a chronic medical condition that increases their
risk of severe influenza disease, including heart and lung disease, metabolic
disease, renal disease and neuromuscular diseases that may compromise
respiratory function, as defined by ACIP recommendations for seasonal
influenza vaccination. | 7,000,000 | Children with these conditions are at
increased risk of severe complications or death from influenza disease; public
values prioritize children highest among groups defined by age and disease
status.  
3 | Remaining active duty military and essential support | Active duty
personnel not included in higher priority groups and essential support
personnel | 1,500,000 | Essential to national and homeland security  
3 | Other health care personnel | Includes groups that provide important
health care services but are at less occupational risk, such as laboratory
personnel | 350,000 | Personnel provide important health care services but are
not as likely to have close contact with ill persons and are therefore at less
risk of occupational infection compared to other healthcare sectors.  
3 | Banking & finance, chemical, food & agriculture, pharmaceutical, postal &
shipping, & transportation sector personnel. (Critical infrastructure with
greater redundancy) | Personnel who are critical to support essential services
provided by the defined sectors | 3,400,000 | These sectors provide essential
products and services; however, compared with Tier 2 sectors, products can
more likely be stored, facilities and personnel are more fungible and better
able to maintain essential functions with high absenteeism, and other
strategies can be implemented to protect workers.  
3 | Other critical government personnel | Federal, state, tribal, and local
government employees and contractors who perform important government
functions included in agency continuity-of-operations plans | 400,000 |
Continuity of key government functions is important to support communities and
critical infrastructures.  
3 | Children 3 - 18  years old without a high risk medical condition |
Children in the specified age group who do not have a chronic medical
condition that increases their risk of severe influenza disease. | 62,000,000
| Public values prioritize protection of children highest among groups defined
by age and disease status; vaccinating children may reduce transmission of
pandemic influenza to household contacts and in communities; if a substantial
number of children are protected by vaccine, schools can re-open mitigating
secondary adverse consequences of closing schools.  
4 | Adults 19 - 64 years with a high risk condition | Adults in the specified
age group with a chronic medical condition that increases their risk of severe
influenza disease, including heart and lung diseases, metabolic diseases,
renal disease,  and neuromuscular diseases that may compromise respiratory
function, as defined by ACIP recommendations for seasonal influenza
vaccination | 38,000,000 | Adults with these conditions are at high risk of
severe complications or death from pandemic influenza.  
4 | Adults 65 years and older | Older adults in the specified age group |
41,000,000 | Persons in the age group are at high risk of severe complications
or death from pandemic influenza.  
5 | Healthy adults, 19 - 64 years old2 | Adults in the specified age group not
included above | 132,000,000 | Persons in this group lack age, health
condition, and occupational rationales for priority pandemic vaccination.  
  
1 Estimates of group size from information provided by Department of Defense,
Department of Homeland Security, Department of Health and Human Services, and
U.S. Census Bureau  
2 The target group "Healthy adults 19-64 years old" does not include persons
defined by occupation and pregnant women who are included in other target
groups.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * PrevReferences
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Page last reviewed: October 24, 2018

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD)

home Pandemic Influenza

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pandemic Basicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Seasonal Flu vs Pandemic Flu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Questions and Answers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Past Pandemicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 2009 H1N1 Pandemicplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Â Summary of Progress since 2009
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Burden of Influenza A H1N1pdm09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2009 H1N1 Timeline
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2009 H1N1 Pandemic Image Gallery
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 1968 Pandemic (H3N2 virus)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 1957-1958 Pandemic (H2N2 virus)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * History of Flu Pandemic 1930 â Today
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 1918 Pandemicplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Historical Image Gallery
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 1918 Pandemic Timeline
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Infographic: Influenza Milestones
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Three Waves of the Pandemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * The Deadliest Flu: The Complete Story of the Discovery and Reconstruction of the 1918 Pandemic Virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 1918 Partner Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Key Messages for Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 1918 Webinar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 1918 Symposium
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 1918 Ask a Scientist Special Features
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National Pandemic Strategyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pandemic Intervals Framework
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Influenza Risk Assessment Tool
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pandemic Severity Assessment Framework
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Allocating & Targeting Pandemic Influenza Vaccineplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidance Development and Revision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccination of Tier 1 at All Pandemic Severities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Implementation of this Guidance during a Future Pandemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccination Tier 2 through 5 by Pandemic Severity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Next Steps for the U.S. Government, States, and Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * References
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Appendix A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Monitoring for Influenza Virusesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Current Situation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Viruses of Special Concernplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Influenza Risk Assessment Results 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Global Monitoring
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Planning and Preparedness Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Global Planning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Federal Resources for Planningplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * National Pandemic Influenza Plans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Regulations and Laws That May Apply During a Pandemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Surveillance, Epidemiology and Laboratory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Community Mitigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccine and Other Medical Countermeasures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Healthcare System Preparedness and Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Communication and Public Outreach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Pandemic Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC Community Flu 2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC FluAid 2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC FluSurge 2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC FluLabSurge 1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC FluWorkLoss 1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State and Local Government Planning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What CDC Doesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How CDC Protects Americans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Pandemic Flu Fightersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Amra Uzicanin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Anita Patel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Anne Schuchat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Dan Jernigan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * James Stevens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Martin Cetron
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stephen Redd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Terrence Tumpey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Are We Prepared
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Archived Documentsplus icon  
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Businesses and Employers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Community and Faith-Based Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Schools and Child Care Centers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State and Local Government
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Transportation and Travel Industryplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cargo Trucking During Pandemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cleaning after an Ill Cab Driver
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cleaning an IPOE Detention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cleaning Cargo Vessels
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cleaning Passenger Railcars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cleaning Transit Stations

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

![H1N1 Flu Pandemic 2009-2019: A Decade Later](/flu/images/H1N1-web-
badge-02.png)

Influenza Types

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Seasonal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Avian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Swine/Variant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pandemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Influenza in Animals

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM

