https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/poona-09-15/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/poona-09-15/index.html    
                Description: Multistate Outbreak of Salmonella Poona Infections Linked to Imported Cucumbers    
                Keywords: Outbreak, Salmonella, Poona, Infections, Imported, Cucumbers, Andrew, Williamson, Mexico, Recall    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

_Salmonella_

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Multistate Outbreak of _Salmonella_ Poona Infections Linked to Imported
Cucumbers (Final Update)

Minus

Related Pages

Posted March 18, 2016 2:30 PM ET

This outbreak appears to be over. However, _Salmonella_ remains an important
cause of human illness in the United States. For more information about
_Salmonella_ and steps that people can take to reduce their risk of infection,
visit CDC's _Salmonella_ webpage.

Highlights

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * This outbreak appears to be over. However, _Salmonella_ remains an important cause of human illness in the United States. For more information about _Salmonella_ and steps that people can take to reduce their risk of infection, visit CDC's _Salmonella_ webpage.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC, multiple states, and the U.S. Food and Drug AdministrationExternal (FDA) investigated a multistate outbreak of _Salmonella_ Poona infections. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * A total of 907 people infected with the outbreak strains of _Salmonella_ Poona were reported from 40 states.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * A total of 204 ill people were hospitalized, and six deaths were reported from Arizona (1), California (3), Oklahoma (1), and Texas (1). _Salmonella_ infection was not considered to be a contributing factor in two of the three deaths in California.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations identified cucumbers imported from Mexico and distributed by Andrew & Williamson Fresh Produce as the likely source of the infections in this outbreak.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Two recalls of cucumbers that may be contaminated with _Salmonella_ were announced in September 2015 as a result of this investigation: Andrew & Williamson Fresh ProduceExternal and Custom Produce SalesExternal.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Investigation of illnesses that were reported after the peak of the outbreak in August and September 2015 did not identify an additional food linked to illness. The source of contamination for the cucumbers distributed by Andrew & Williamson Fresh Produce has not been identified.

Outbreak Summary

#### Introduction

CDC collaborated with public health officials in many states and the U.S. Food
and Drug AdministrationExternal (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of
_Salmonella_ Poona infections.

Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses
that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet, coordinated by CDC, is the national
subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories.
PulseNet performs DNA fingerprinting on _Salmonella_ bacteria isolated from
ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE)
and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of
these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks.

A total of 907 people infected with the outbreak strains of _Salmonella_ Poona
were reported from 40 states. A list of states and the number of cases in each
can be found on the Case Count Map page.

Among people for whom information was available, illnesses started on dates
ranging from July 3, 2015 to February 29, 2016. Ill people ranged in age from
less than 1 year to 99, with a median age of 18. Forty-nine percent of ill
people were children younger than 18 years. Fifty-six percent of ill people
were female. Among 720 people with available information, 204 (28%) were
hospitalized. Six deaths were reported from Arizona (1), California (3),
Oklahoma (1), and Texas (1). According to the California Department of Public
Health, _Salmonella_ infection was not considered to be a contributing factor
in two of the three deaths in California.

WGS showed that isolates from ill people were closely related genetically.
These results also included isolates from people who became ill in October,
November and January after the outbreak's peak. This close genetic
relationship means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a
common source of infection, such as a contaminated food.

#### Investigation of the Outbreak

Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations identified imported
cucumbers from Mexico and distributed by Andrew & Williamson Fresh Produce as
the likely source of the infections in this outbreak.

##### _Epidemiologic Investigation_

State and local public health officials interviewed ill people to obtain
information about foods they might have eaten and other exposures in the week
before their illness began. In interviews, 391 (75%) of 519 people reported
eating cucumbers. This proportion was significantly higher than results from a
survey of healthy people Cdc-pdf[PDF - 29 pages] in which 47% reported eating
cucumbers in the week before they were interviewed.

Also, many ill people were identified as part of illness clusters. An illness
cluster is defined as two or more people who do not live in the same household
who report eating at the same restaurant location, attending a common event,
or shopping at the same location of a grocery store in the week before
becoming ill. Investigating illness clusters can provide critical clues about
the source of an outbreak. If several unrelated ill persons ate or shopped at
the same location of a restaurant or store within several days of each other,
it suggests that the contaminated food item was served or sold there. Eleven
illness clusters were identified in seven states. In all of these clusters,
interviews found that cucumbers were a common item eaten by ill people.
Epidemiologic studies that compare foods eaten by both ill and well people
were conducted in two of these clusters. Results of these studies indicated
that a food item containing cucumbers was associated with illness.

CDC's National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory
conducted antibiotic resistance testing on clinical isolates collected from 30
ill people infected with one of the outbreak strains. Of the 30 isolates
tested, 2 (7%) were drug resistant (resistance to one or more antibiotics),
and the other 28 (93%) isolates were not resistant to any of the antibiotics
tested by NARMS. One drug-resistant isolate was resistant to tetracycline. The
other isolate was resistant to nalidixic acid and nonsusceptible to
ciprofloxacin. Nonsusceptible means an antibiotic cannot completely kill
bacteria or stop their growth. Ciprofloxacin is commonly used to treat serious
_Salmonella_ infections in adults but is not routinely used in children.
Antibiotic resistance may be associated with increased risk of
hospitalization, development of a bloodstream infection, or treatment failure.

##### _Laboratory Investigation_

Several state health and agriculture departments collected and tested
cucumbers from retail locations and isolated the outbreak strains of
_Salmonella_ Poona. Information indicated that these cucumbers were
distributed by Andrew & Williamson Fresh Produce. Additionally, testing of
cucumbers collected from the Andrew & Williamson Fresh Produce facility
isolated the outbreak strains of _Salmonella_ Poona.

WGS of _Salmonella_ Poona isolates from ill people and from contaminated
cucumbers distributed by Andrew & Williamson Fresh Produce showed that the
strains were closely related genetically. This close genetic relationship
provided additional evidence that ill people in this outbreak became ill from
consuming cucumbers distributed by Andrew & Williamson.

##### _Traceback and Regulatory Investigation_

Early in an outbreak investigation, consultation with independent industry
experts can provide important clues to help focus the investigation on certain
suspected foods. An industry consultation was held on August 26, 2015, with
four independent experts from the produce industry to obtain information
regarding fresh produce harvesting and distribution in the areas where ill
people were being reported. The consultants provided information regarding
crop production and distribution practices that helped assess the plausibility
of cucumbers and other produce items as possible outbreak sources.

Traceback information collected from the 11 illness clusters indicated that
cucumbers eaten by ill people were imported from Mexico and distributed by
Andrew & Williamson Fresh Produce.

Two recalls of garden variety cucumbers distributed by Andrew & Williamson
Fresh Produce were announced because the cucumbers were likely contaminated
with _Salmonella_. Recalled cucumbers were grown in Baja California, Mexico
and distributed to many U.S. states. On September 4, 2015, Andrew & Williamson
Fresh Produce voluntarily recalledExternal all cucumbers sold under the
Limited Edition brand label from August 1, 2015 through September 3, 2015. On
September 11, 2015, Custom Produce Sales voluntarily recalledExternal all
cucumbers sold under the Fat Boy brand label starting August 1, 2015. These
cucumbers were sent to Custom Produce Sales from Andrew & Williamson Fresh
Produce.

##### _Illnesses Occurring after September 24, 2015_

The number of reported illnesses declined substantially after the peak of
illnesses in August and September; however, illnesses did not return to the
expected number for several months afterwards for this DNA fingerprint
(typically, about one illness is expected every month from November through
January). Instead, 127 illnesses started after September 24, 2015, when
recalled cucumbers should have no longer been available in stores or
restaurants. If any of the recalled cucumbers were still available, they would
have spoiled by that time.

WGS results from illnesses which occurred after the end of September 2015
suggested they shared a common source with the illnesses during the peak of
the outbreak in August and September. State and local public health officials
interviewed 46 of these ill people. Of that group, 29 (63%) reported eating
cucumbers in the week before their illness started. Interviews did not
identify any additional food items potentially linked with illness.
Investigations were unable to determine if the illnesses could be explained by
cross-contamination within the distribution chain for the recalled cucumbers,
such as in shipping containers or at retail locations. This outbreak appears
to be over.

At A Glance

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Case Count: 907
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * States: 40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Deaths: 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Hospitalizations: 204
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Recall: Yes

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Advice to Retailers & Consumers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Key Resources

CLICK TO VIEW EPI CURVE GRAPHS

![Epi Curve Multisate Salmonella outbreak for Imported Cucumbers -
Poona](/salmonella/poona-09-15/images/small-epi-3-18-16.jpg)

CLICK TO VIEW CASE COUNT MAPS

![Map of Salmonella Imported Cucumber
Outbreak](/salmonella/poona-09-15/images/small-map-3-16-16.jpg)

![image of a cucumber half sliced with a white
background](/salmonella/poona-09-15/images/cucumber.jpg)

Garden cucumber

March 18, 2016

#### Final Case Count Update

This outbreak appears to be over. Since the last update on January 26, 2016,
19 more ill people were reported from eight states.

A total of 907 people infected with the outbreak strains of _Salmonella_ Poona
were reported from 40 states. A list of states and the number of cases in each
can be found on the Case Count Map page.

Among people for whom information was available, illnesses started on dates
ranging from July 3, 2015 to February 29, 2016. Ill people ranged in age from
less than 1 year to 99, with a median age of 18. Forty-nine percent of ill
people were children younger than 18 years. Fifty-six percent of ill people
were female. Among 720 people with available information, 204 (28%) were
hospitalized. Six deaths were reported from Arizona (1), California (3),
Oklahoma (1), and Texas (1). According to the California Department of Public
Health, _Salmonella_ infection was not considered to be a contributing factor
in two of the three deaths in California.

January 26, 2016

#### Case Count Update

Since the last update on November 19, 2015, 50 more ill people have been
reported from 16 states. Illnesses that occurred after December 21, 2015 might
not be reported yet. A series of events occurs between the time a person is
infected and the time public health officials can determine that the person is
part of an outbreak. This means that there will be a delay between when a
person gets sick and confirmation that he or she is part of an outbreak. This
takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases
of _Salmonella_ Infection for more details.

As of January 21, 2016, 888 people infected with the outbreak strains of
_Salmonella_ Poona have been reported from 39 states. The number of ill people
reported from each state is as follows: Alabama (1), Alaska (19), Arizona
(134), Arkansas (13), California (241), Colorado (21), Connecticut (1),
Florida (1), Hawaii (1), Idaho (26), Illinois (11), Indiana (5), Iowa (7),
Kansas (2), Kentucky (1), Louisiana (5), Maryland (1), Minnesota (43),
Missouri (15), Montana (16), Nebraska (8), Nevada (17), New Hampshire (1), New
Mexico (35), New York (6), North Dakota (8), Ohio (3), Oklahoma (13), Oregon
(23), Pennsylvania (2), South Carolina (10), South Dakota (3), Tennessee (1),
Texas (52), Utah (62), Virginia (1), Washington (26), Wisconsin (46), and
Wyoming (7).

Among people for whom information is available, illnesses started on dates
ranging from July 3, 2015 to January 6, 2016. Ill people range in age from
less than 1 year to 99, with a median age of 18. Forty-nine percent of ill
people are children younger than 18 years. Fifty-six percent of ill people are
female. Among 686 people with available information, 191 (28%) report being
hospitalized. Six deaths have been reported from Arizona (1), California (3),
Oklahoma (1), and Texas (1). According to the California Department of Public
Health, _Salmonella_ infection was not considered to be a contributing factor
in two of the three deaths in California.

#### Investigation Update

Whole genome sequencing (WGS) of _Salmonella_ Poona isolates from ill people
and from contaminated cucumbers distributed by Andrew & Williamson Fresh
Produce showed that the strains are closely related genetically. These results
also included isolates from people who became ill in October and November.

The number of reported illnesses has declined substantially since the peak of
illnesses in August and September; however, it has not returned to the number
of reported illnesses that we would expect to see (about 1 every month during
this time of year).

One hundred and six illnesses started after September 24, 2015, when recalled
cucumbers should have no longer been available in stores or restaurants. If
any of the recalled cucumbers were still available, they would have spoiled by
that time. State and local public health officials have interviewed 38 of
these ill people. Twenty-four (63%) of them reported eating cucumbers in the
week before their illness started. Interviews have not identified any
additional food items potentially linked with illness. The investigation into
the source of these recent illnesses is ongoing.

The source of contamination for cucumbers distributed by Andrew & Williamson
Fresh Produce has not been identified. WGS results from recent illnesses
suggest they share a common source with the illnesses during the peak of the
outbreak in August and September. Investigations are under way to determine if
cross-contamination within the distribution chain for the recalled cucumbers
could explain recent illnesses.

This investigation is ongoing. CDC will provide updates when more information
is available.

November 19, 2015

#### Case Count Update

Since the last update on October 14, 2015, 71 more ill people have been
reported from 23 states. Illnesses that occurred after October 21, 2015 might
not be reported yet. A series of events occurs between the time a person is
infected and the time public health officials can determine that the person is
part of an outbreak. This means that there will be a delay between when a
person gets sick and confirmation that he or she is part of an outbreak. This
takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases
of _Salmonella_ Infection for more details.

As of November 18, 2015, 838 people infected with the outbreak strains of
_Salmonella_ Poona have been reported from 38 states. The number of ill people
reported from each state is as follows: Alabama (1), Alaska (17), Arizona
(129), Arkansas (13), California (232), Colorado (19), Connecticut (1),
Florida (1), Hawaii (1), Idaho (24), Illinois (9), Indiana (5), Iowa (7),
Kansas (2), Kentucky (1), Louisiana (5), Maryland (1), Minnesota (40),
Missouri (14), Montana (16), Nebraska (8), Nevada (16), New Hampshire (1), New
Mexico (32), New York (6), North Dakota (8), Ohio (3), Oklahoma (13), Oregon
(22), Pennsylvania (2), South Carolina (10), South Dakota (3), Texas (42),
Utah (58), Virginia (1), Washington (25), Wisconsin (43), and Wyoming (7).

Among people for whom information is available, illnesses started on dates
ranging from July 3, 2015 to November 1, 2015. Ill people range in age from
less than 1 year to 99, with a median age of 18. Fifty percent of ill people
are children younger than 18 years. Fifty-seven percent of ill people are
female. Among 601 people with available information, 165 (27%) report being
hospitalized. Four deaths have been reported from Arizona (1), California (1),
Oklahoma (1), and Texas (1).

The number of reported illnesses has declined substantially since the peak of
illnesses in August and September; however, it has not returned to the number
of reported illnesses that we would expect to see (about 5 every month). The
investigation into the source of these recent illnesses is ongoing.

October 14, 2015

#### Case Count Update

Since the last update on October 6, 2015, 35 more ill people have been
reported from 14 states. Illnesses that occurred after September 15, 2015
might not be reported yet. A series of events occurs between the time a person
is infected and the time public health officials can determine that the person
is part of an outbreak. This means that there will be a delay between when a
person gets sick and confirmation that he or she is part of an outbreak. This
takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases
of _Salmonella_ Infection for more details. Also, cucumbers have a shelf life
of up to 14 days. Some people may not have known about the recall and eaten
the contaminated cucumbers after the recall.

As of October 13, 2015, 767 people infected with the outbreak strains of
_Salmonella_ Poona have been reported from 36 states. The number of ill people
reported from each state is as follows: Alabama (1), Alaska (16), Arizona
(118), Arkansas (11), California (205), Colorado (18), Florida (1), Hawaii
(1), Idaho (24), Illinois (9), Indiana (4), Iowa (6), Kansas (2), Kentucky
(1), Louisiana (5), Maryland (1), Minnesota (38), Missouri (12), Montana (15),
Nebraska (7), Nevada (14), New Mexico (31), New York (6), North Dakota (6),
Ohio (3), Oklahoma (12), Oregon (21), Pennsylvania (2), South Carolina (9),
South Dakota (3), Texas (38), Utah (53), Virginia (1), Washington (24),
Wisconsin (42), and Wyoming (7).

Among people for whom information is available, illnesses started on dates
ranging from July 3, 2015 to September 29, 2015. Ill people range in age from
less than 1 year to 99, with a median age of 17. Fifty percent of ill people
are children younger than 18 years. Fifty-five percent of ill people are
female. Among 561 people with available information, 157 (28%) report being
hospitalized. Four deaths have been reported from Arizona (1), California (1),
Oklahoma (1), and Texas (1).

October 6, 2015

#### Case Count Update

Since the last update on September 29, 2015, 61 new ill people have been
reported from 24 states. It can take up to a week from the time people eat
food contaminated with _Salmonella_ before they get sick. Also, cucumbers have
a shelf life of up to 14 days. It is not unexpected to continue to see
illnesses reported after the recalls. Some people may not have known about the
recall and eaten the contaminated cucumbers after the recall.

As of October 5, 2015, 732 people infected with the outbreak strains of
_Salmonella_ Poona have been reported from 35 states. The number of ill people
reported from each state is as follows: Alabama (1), Alaska (14), Arizona
(114), Arkansas (11), California (192), Colorado (18), Hawaii (1), Idaho (24),
Illinois (9), Indiana (3), Iowa (6), Kansas (2), Kentucky (1), Louisiana (5),
Maryland (1), Minnesota (37), Missouri (11), Montana (14), Nebraska (6),
Nevada (14), New Mexico (31), New York (6), North Dakota (6), Ohio (2),
Oklahoma (12), Oregon (20), Pennsylvania (2), South Carolina (9), South Dakota
(3), Texas (34), Utah (53), Virginia (1), Washington (22), Wisconsin (40), and
Wyoming (7).

Among people for whom information is available, illnesses started on dates
ranging from July 3, 2015 to September 25, 2015. Ill people range in age from
less than 1 year to 99, with a median age of 17. Fifty percent of ill people
are children younger than 18 years. Fifty-five percent of ill people are
female. Among 536 people with available information, 150 (28%) report being
hospitalized. Four deaths have been reported from Arizona (1), California (1),
Oklahoma (1), and Texas (1).  
Illnesses that occurred after September 8, 2015 might not be reported yet. A
series of events occurs between the time a person is infected and the time
public health officials can determine that the person is part of an outbreak.
This means that there will be a delay between when a person gets sick and
confirmation that he or she is part of an outbreak. This takes an average of 2
to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of _Salmonella_
Infection for more details.

September 29, 2015

#### Case Count Update

Since the last update on September 22, 2015, 113 new ill people have been
reported from 19 states. It can take up to a week from the time people eat
food contaminated with _Salmonella_ before they get sick. Also, cucumbers have
a shelf life of up to 14 days. It is not unexpected to continue to see
illnesses reported after the recalls. Some people may not have known about the
recall and eaten the contaminated cucumbers after the recall.

As of September 28, 2015, 671 people infected with the outbreak strains of
_Salmonella_ Poona have been reported from 34 states. The number of ill people
reported from each state is as follows: Alabama (1), Alaska (13), Arizona
(112), Arkansas (9), California (164), Colorado (17), Hawaii (1), Idaho (22),
Illinois (8), Indiana (2), Iowa (5), Kansas (2), Kentucky (1), Louisiana (5),
Minnesota (34), Missouri (10), Montana (14), Nebraska (5), Nevada (13), New
Mexico (30), New York (5), North Dakota (3), Ohio (2), Oklahoma (12), Oregon
(19), Pennsylvania (2), South Carolina (9), South Dakota (1), Texas (33), Utah
(51), Virginia (1), Washington (21), Wisconsin (38), and Wyoming (6).

Among people for whom information is available, illnesses started on dates
ranging from July 3, 2015 to September 21, 2015. Ill people range in age from
less than 1 year to 99, with a median age of 17. Fifty-one percent of ill
people are children younger than 18 years. Fifty-four percent of ill people
are female. Among 459 people with available information, 131 (29%) report
being hospitalized. Three deaths have been reported from Arizona (1),
California (1) and Texas (1).

Illnesses that occurred after September 2, 2015 might not be reported yet. A
series of events occurs between the time a person is infected and the time
public health officials can determine that the person is part of an outbreak.
This means that there will be a delay between when a person gets sick and
confirmation that he or she is part of an outbreak. This takes an average of 2
to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of _Salmonella_
Infection for more details.

September 22, 2015

#### Case Count Update

Since the last update on September 15, 2015, 140 new ill people have been
reported from Alaska (2), Arizona (23), Arkansas (2), California (31),
Colorado (1), Idaho (6), Illinois (2), Iowa (1), Kansas (1), Minnesota (9),
Missouri (1), Montana (1), Nebraska (3), Nevada (2), New Mexico (5), New York
(1), North Dakota (1), Oklahoma (2), Oregon (9), South Dakota (1), Texas (4),
Utah (9), Washington (3), and Wisconsin (20).

As of September 21, 2015, a total of 558 people infected with the outbreak
strains of _Salmonella_ Poona have been reported from 33 states. The number of
ill people reported from each state is as follows: Alaska (12), Arizona (95),
Arkansas (8), California (120), Colorado (17), Hawaii (1), Idaho (20),
Illinois (8), Indiana (2), Iowa (1), Kansas (2), Kentucky (1), Louisiana (4),
Minnesota (29), Missouri (9), Montana (14), Nebraska (5), Nevada (11), New
Mexico (27), New York (5), North Dakota (3), Ohio (2), Oklahoma (12), Oregon
(17), Pennsylvania (2), South Carolina (8), South Dakota (1), Texas (24), Utah
(46), Virginia (1), Washington (18), Wisconsin (29), and Wyoming (4).

Among people for whom information is available, illnesses started on dates
ranging from July 3, 2015 to September 11, 2015. Ill people range in age from
less than 1 year to 99, with a median age of 16. Fifty-two percent of ill
people are children younger than 18 years. Fifty-four percent of ill people
are female. Among 387 people with available information, 112 (29%) report
being hospitalized. Three deaths have been reported from Arizona (1),
California (1) and Texas (1).

Illnesses that occurred after August 28, 2015 might not be reported yet. A
series of events occurs between the time a person is infected and the time
public health officials can determine that the person is part of an outbreak.
This means that there will be a delay between when a person gets sick and
confirmation that he or she is part of an outbreak. This takes an average of 2
to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of _Salmonella_
Infection for more details.

#### Investigation Update

CDC's National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory
conducted antibiotic resistance testing on clinical isolates collected from 6
ill people infected with one of the outbreak strains. Of the 6 isolates
tested, all (100%) were susceptible to all antibiotics tested on the NARMS
panel. CDC's NARMS laboratory continues to conduct antibiotic resistance
testing on additional clinical isolates collected from ill persons infected
with the outbreak strains. Results will be reported when they become
available.

September 15, 2015

#### Case Count Update

Since the last update on September 9, 2015, 77 new ill people have been
reported from Alaska (1), Arizona (6), California (17), Colorado (2), Idaho
(6), Indiana (2), Minnesota (8), Montana (3), Nevada (2), New Mexico (4),
North Dakota (1), Oklahoma (2), South Carolina (1), Texas (2), Utah (7),
Washington (5), Wisconsin (7), and Wyoming (1).

As of September 15, 2015, a total of 418 people infected with the outbreak
strains of _Salmonella_ Poona have been reported from 31 states. The number of
ill people reported from each state is as follows: Alaska (10), Arizona (72),
Arkansas (6), California (89), Colorado (16), Hawaii (1), Idaho (14), Illinois
(6), Indiana (2), Kansas (1), Kentucky (1), Louisiana (4), Minnesota (20),
Missouri (8), Montana (13), Nebraska (2), Nevada (9), New Mexico (22), New
York (4), North Dakota (2), Ohio (2), Oklahoma (10), Oregon (8), Pennsylvania
(2), South Carolina (8), Texas (20), Utah (37), Virginia (1), Washington (15),
Wisconsin (9), and Wyoming (4).

Among people for whom information is available, illnesses started on dates
ranging from July 3, 2015 to September 3, 2015. Ill people range in age from
less than 1 year to 99, with a median age of 17. Fifty-two percent of ill
people are children younger than 18 years. Fifty-three percent of ill people
are female. Among 290 people with available information, 91 (31%) report being
hospitalized. Two deaths have been reported from California (1) and Texas (1).

Illnesses that occurred after August 22, 2015 might not be reported yet due to
the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is
reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for
Reporting Cases of _Salmonella_ Infection for more details.

#### Investigation Update

On September 11, 2015, Custom Produce Sales voluntarily recalledExternal all
cucumbers sold under the Fat Boy label starting August 1, 2015 because they
may be contaminated with _Salmonella_. These cucumbers were sent to Custom
Produce Sales from Andrew & Williamson Fresh Produce. Fat Boy label cucumbers
were produced in Baja California, Mexico and distributed in the states of
California, Colorado, Illinois, Iowa, Nevada, North Dakota, Oklahoma, and
Texas. Unlabeled cucumbers packed into a black reusable plastic container, and
sold in Nevada as of August 1, 2015, are also covered by this recall. The type
of cucumber is often referred to as a "slicer" or "American" cucumber. It is
dark green in color and typical length is 7 to 10 inches. In retail locations
it is typically sold in a bulk display without any individual packaging or
plastic wrapping. These cucumbers are shipped in a black, green, and red
cardboard box which reads "Fat Boy Fresh Produce." Photos of the packing
cartons are available.

Several state health and agriculture departments are collecting and testing
cucumbers from retail locations for the presence of _Salmonella_. Since the
last update on September 9, 2015, the Arizona Department of Health Services
and the Montana Department of Public Health and Human Services isolated one of
the outbreak strains of _Salmonella_ Poona from cucumbers collected from
retail locations. Preliminary information indicates that these cucumbers were
distributed by Andrew & Williamson Fresh Produce. The San Diego County Health
and Human Services Agency __ isolated one of the outbreak strains of
_Salmonella_ Poona from cucumbers collected from the Andrew & Williamson Fresh
Produce facility.

The National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring SystemExternal (NARMS) is a
U.S. public health surveillance system that tracks antibiotic resistance in
foodborne and other enteric bacteria found in people, raw meat and poultry,
and food-producing animals. NARMS is a partnership among the CDC, the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration (FDA), USDA, and state and local health
departments.

The NARMS human surveillance program at CDC monitors antibiotic resistance in
_Salmonella_ and other bacteria isolated from clinical specimens submitted to
NARMS by public health laboratories. CDC's NARMS laboratory conducted
antibiotic resistance testing on clinical isolates collected from 3 ill people
infected with one of the outbreak strains. Of the 3 isolates tested, all
(100%) were susceptible to all antibiotics tested on the NARMS panel. CDC's
NARMS laboratory continues to conduct antibiotic resistance testing on
additional clinical isolates collected from ill persons infected with the
outbreak strains. Results will be reported when they become available.

September 9, 2015

#### Case Count Update

Since the last update on September 4, 2015, 56 new ill people have been
reported from Alaska (1), Arizona (6), California (21), Hawaii (1), Illinois
(1), Louisiana (1), Missouri (1), New Mexico (3), Oklahoma (3), Oregon (5),
Pennsylvania (2), South Carolina (1), Texas (9), and Washington (1).

As of September 8, 2015, a total of 341 people infected with the outbreak
strains of _Salmonella_ Poona have been reported from 30 states. The number of
ill people reported from each state is as follows: Alaska (9), Arizona (66),
Arkansas (6), California (72), Colorado (14), Hawaii (1), Idaho (8), Illinois
(6), Kansas (1), Kentucky (1), Louisiana (4), Minnesota (12), Missouri (8),
Montana (10), Nebraska (2), Nevada (7), New Mexico (18), New York (4), North
Dakota (1), Ohio (2), Oklahoma (8), Oregon (8), Pennsylvania (2), South
Carolina (7), Texas (18), Utah (30), Virginia (1), Washington (10), Wisconsin
(2), and Wyoming (3).

Among people for whom information is available, illnesses started on dates
ranging from July 3, 2015 to August 30, 2015. Ill people range in age from
less than 1 year to 99, with a median age of 15. Fifty-three percent of ill
people are children younger than 18 years. Fifty-eight percent of ill people
are female. Among 214 people with available information, 70 (33%) report being
hospitalized. Two deaths have been reported from California (1) and Texas (1).

Illnesses that occurred after August 16, 2015 might not be reported yet due to
the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is
reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for
Reporting Cases of _Salmonella_ Infection for more details.

#### Investigation Update

Several state health and agriculture departments are collecting and testing
leftover cucumbers from retail locations for the presence of _Salmonella_.
Since the last update on September 4, 2015, the Nevada Department of Health
and Human Services isolated one of the outbreak strains of _Salmonella_ Poona
from a cucumber collected from a retail location. Additionally, the Arizona
Department of Health Services and the Montana Department of Public Health and
Human Services isolated _Salmonella_ from cucumbers collected from retail
locations. Preliminary information indicates that these cucumbers were
distributed by Andrew & Williamson Fresh Produce. DNA "fingerprinting" is
being conducted to determine the pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE)
pattern of the _Salmonella_ isolated from the cucumbers in Arizona and
Montana. DNA "fingerprinting" is still ongoing for the _Salmonella_ isolated
from cucumbers collected from the Andrew & Williamson Fresh Produce facility
by the San Diego County Health and Human Services Agency. Results of
additional product testing will be reported when available.

Initial Announcement

#### September 4, 2015

CDC, multiple states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) are
investigating a multistate outbreak of _Salmonella_ Poona infections linked to
imported cucumbers from Mexico and distributed by Andrew & Williamson Fresh
Produce.

Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify
illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet, the national subtyping
network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories, is
coordinated by CDC. DNA "fingerprinting" is performed on _Salmonella_ bacteria
isolated from ill people by using a technique called pulsed-field gel
electrophoresis, or PFGE. PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA
"fingerprints" to identify possible outbreaks. Three DNA "fingerprints"
(outbreak strains) are included in this investigation.

As of September 3, 2015, 285 people infected with the outbreak strains of
_Salmonella_ Poona have been reported from 27 states. The number of ill people
reported from each state is as follows: Alaska (8), Arizona (60), Arkansas
(6), California (51), Colorado (14), Idaho (8), Illinois (5), Kansas (1),
Louisiana (3), Minnesota (12), Missouri (7), Montana (11), Nebraska (2),
Nevada (7), New Mexico (15), New York (4), North Dakota (1), Ohio (2),
Oklahoma (5), Oregon (3), South Carolina (6), Texas (9), Utah (30), Virginia
(1), Washington (9), Wisconsin (2), and Wyoming (3).

Among people for whom information is available, illnesses started on dates
ranging from July 3, 2015 to August 26, 2015. Ill people range in age from
less than 1 year to 99, with a median age of 13. Fifty-four percent of ill
people are children younger than 18 years. Fifty-seven percent of ill people
are female. Among 160 people with available information, 53 (33%) report being
hospitalized. One death has been reported from California.

This outbreak can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of people who
became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve.
Illnesses that occurred after August 14, 2015 might not be reported yet due to
the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is
reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for
Reporting Cases of _Salmonella_ Infection for more details.

#### Investigation of the Outbreak

Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations have identified
imported cucumbers from Mexico and distributed by Andrew & Williamson Fresh
Produce as a likely source of the infections in this outbreak. The
investigation is ongoing.

State and local public health officials are interviewing ill people to obtain
information about foods they might have eaten and other exposures in the week
before their illness began. In interviews, ill people answered questions about
foods eaten and other exposures in the week before their illness began. Fifty-
eight (73%) of 80 people interviewed reported eating cucumbers. This
proportion was significantly higher than results from a survey Cdc-pdf[PDF -
29 pages] of healthy people in which 55% reported eating cucumbers in the
month of July in the week before they were interviewed.

In addition, numerous ill people were identified as part of illness clusters.
An illness cluster is defined as two or more people who do not live in the
same household who report eating at the same restaurant location, attending a
common event, or shopping at the same location of a grocery store in the week
before becoming ill. Investigating illness clusters can provide critical clues
about the source of an outbreak. If several unrelated ill persons ate or
shopped at the same location of a restaurant or store within several days of
each other, it suggests that the contaminated food item was served or sold
there. Eleven illness clusters have been identified in seven states. In all of
these clusters, interviews found that cucumbers were a food item eaten in
common by ill people. Epidemiologic studies that compare foods eaten by both
ill and well people are being conducted in two of these clusters. Preliminary
results of these studies indicate that a food item containing cucumbers was
associated with illness. Preliminary traceback information indicates that
cucumbers eaten by ill people in these clusters were imported from Mexico and
distributed by Andrew & Williamson Fresh Produce.

Several state health and agriculture departments are collecting leftover
cucumbers from restaurants and grocery stores where ill people reported eating
or shopping to test for the presence of _Salmonella_. The San Diego County
Health and Human Services Agency isolated _Salmonella_ from cucumbers
collected during a visit to the Andrew & Williamson Fresh Produce facility.
DNA "fingerprinting" is being conducted to determine the PFGE pattern of the
_Salmonella_ isolated from these cucumbers. Results of additional product
testing will be reported when available.

Consultation with independent industry experts early in an outbreak
investigation also can provide important clues to help focus the investigation
on certain suspected foods. An industry consultation was held on August 26,
2015, with four independent experts from the produce industry to obtain
information regarding fresh produce harvesting and distribution in the
affected region. The consultants provided information regarding crop
production and distribution practices that helped assess the plausibility of
cucumbers and other produce items as possible outbreak sources.

On September 4, 2015, Andrew & Williamson Fresh Produce voluntarily
recalledExternal all cucumbers sold under the "Limited Edition" brand label
during the period from August 1, 2015 through September 3, 2015 because they
may be contaminated with _Salmonella_. The type of cucumber is often referred
to as a "slicer" or "American" cucumber. It is dark green in color and
typical length is 7 to 10 inches. In retail locations it is typically sold in
a bulk display without any individual packaging or plastic wrapping. Limited
Edition cucumbers were distributed in the states of Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas,
California, Colorado, Florida, Idaho, Illinois, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana,
Minnesota, Mississippi, Montana, Nevada, New Jersey, New Mexico, Oklahoma,
Oregon, South Carolina, Texas, and Utah and reached customers through retail,
food service companies, wholesalers, and brokers. Further distribution to
other states may have occurred.

These cucumbers are shipped in a black, green, yellow, and craft colored
carton which reads "Limited Edition Pole Grown Cucumbers." Labeling on the
cases of recalled cucumbers indicates the product was grown and packed by
Rancho Don Juanito in Mexico. Domestically produced cucumbers are not believed
to be involved in this outbreak.

CDC's National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System _(_ NARMS)
laboratory is conducting antibiotic resistance testing on clinical isolates
collected from ill people infected with the outbreak strains; results will be
reported when they become available.

This investigation is rapidly evolving. CDC and state and local public health
partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify
additional ill people and to interview them. Updates will be provided when
more information is available.

Page last reviewed: November 19, 2015

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Foodborne,
Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases (DFWED)

home _Salmonella_ Homepage

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Questions & Answersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Additional Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosis & Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diagnostic and Public Health Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Current Outbreaksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reporting Timeline
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Pet Turtlesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Map of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Timeline of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a tortugas mascota pequeÃ±as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Cut Fruitplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Map of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Timeline of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Ground Beefplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Map of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Timeline of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a la carne de res molida
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Turtlesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Map of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Timeline of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a turtugas mascota
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pig Ear Dog Treatsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Map of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Timeline of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Papayasplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Map of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Timeline of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a papayas frescas enteras importadas de MÃ©xico
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Karawan brand Tahiniplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Map of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Timeline of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a tahini de la marca Karawan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Backyard Poultryplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Map of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Brotes de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculados a aves de corral domÃ©sticas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Raw Tunaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Map of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Timeline of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ Newport vinculado a atÃºn crudo congelado
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mapa de casos reportados
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melonplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Map of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Timeline of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ Carrau vinculado a melÃ³n y sandÃ­a precortados
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mapa de casos reportados
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Butterball Brand Ground Turkeyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Map of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Timeline of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado al pavo molido de marca Butterball
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mapa de casos reportados
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Actualizaciones de la investigaciÃ³n del brote, por fecha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Hedgehogsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Map of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Timeline of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a los erizos como mascota
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mapa de casos reportados
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Previous Outbreaksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 2018 Outbreaksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Multidrug-Resistant _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Raw Turkey Productsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Map of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Timeline of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Brote de infecciones por Salmonella multirresistente vinculado a productos de pavo crudo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Mapa de casos reportados
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Tahini from Achdut Ltd., 2018plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Map of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Timeline of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a tahini elaborado por Achdut Ltd.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Mapa de casos reportados
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Raw Chicken Products, 2018plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Map of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Timeline of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Advice to Clinicians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Brote de infecciones por Salmonella multirresistente vinculado a productos de pollo crudo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Mapa de casos reportados
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recomendaciones para los mÃ©dicos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Ground Beef, 2018plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Map of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Timeline of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a carne molida de res
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Mapa de casos reportados
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Agbeni Infections, 2018plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Map of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Timeline of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Mapa de casos reportados
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Gravel Ridge Farms Shell Eggs, 2018plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Map of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Timeline of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado al pollo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Mapa de casos reportados
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chicken, 2018plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Map of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Timeline of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado al pollo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Mapa de casos reportados
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Hy-Vee Spring Pasta Salad, 2018plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Map of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Timeline of Reported Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Brote de infecciones por Salmonella vinculado a la ensalada de pasta âHy-Vee Spring Pasta Saladâ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Mapa de casos reportados
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Kelloggâs Honey Smacks Cereal, 2018plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Salmonella Infections Linked to Kelloggâs Honey Smacks Cereal en EspaÃ±ol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recall and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants and Retailers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melon, 2018plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melon en EspaÃ±ol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Contact with Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks, 2018plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Contact with Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks en EspaÃ±ol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Braenderup Infections Linked to Shell Eggs, 2018plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * _Salmonella_ Braenderup Infections Linked to Shell Eggs en EspaÃ±ol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recalls and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Dried Coconut, 2018plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Dried Coconut en EspaÃ±ol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recall and Advice to Consumers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Guinea Pigs, 2018plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Guinea Pigs en EspaÃ±ol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps en EspaÃ±ol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms en EspaÃ±ol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chicken Salad, 2018plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chicken Salad en EspaÃ±ol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Kratom, 2018plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Kratom en EspaÃ±ol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recalls and Advice to Consumers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Montevideo Infections Linked to Raw Sprouts, 2018plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Raw Sprouts en EspaÃ±ol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Shredded Coconut, 2018plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Shredded Coconut en EspaÃ±ol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Shredded Coconut á» Viá»t Nam [PDF â 3 pages]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recall and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 2017 Outbreaksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Urbana Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * _Salmonella_ Urbana Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Newport & Infantis Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * _Salmonella_ Newport & Infantis Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Anatum Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * _Salmonella_ Anatum Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recall & Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Turtles, 2017plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles, 2017 en EspaÃ±ol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recall & Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Laboratory Exposure, 2017plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Advice to Students & Employees in Microbiology Laboratories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry in Backyard Flocksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Live Poultry FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 2016 Outbreaksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Heidelberg Infections Linked to Contact with Dairy Calves, 2016plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Oranienburg Infections Linked to Shell Eggs, 2016plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recall & Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Reading and _Salmonella_ Abony Infections linked to Alfalfa Sprouts, 2016plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2016plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Live Poultry FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Montevideo and _Salmonella_ Senftenberg Infections Linked to Wonderful Pistachios, 2016plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recall & Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts from One Contaminated Seed Lot, 2016plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Virchow Infections Linked to Raw Meal Organic Shake and Meal Products, 2016plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 2015 Outbreaksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) Infections Linked to Sprouted Nut Butter Spreads, 2015plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles, 2015plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles en EspaÃ±ol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Advice to Pet Owners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Advice to Pet Owners en EspaÃ±ol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Poona Infections Linked to Imported Cucumbers, 2015plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Multidrug-Resistant _Salmonella_ I 4,[5],12:i:- and _Salmonella_ Infantis Infections Linked to Pork, 2015plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Enteritidis Infections Linked to Raw, Frozen, Stuffed Chicken Entrees Produced by Aspen Foods, 2015plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Drug-Resistant _Salmonella_ Enteritidis Infections Linked to Raw, Frozen, Stuffed Chicken Entrees Produced by Barber Foods, 2015plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2015plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Advice to Backyard Flock Owners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Raw Tuna, 2015plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Advice to Retailers & Consumers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Crested Geckos, 2015plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Advice to Pet Owners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 2014 Outbreaksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Bean Sprouts, 2014plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Final Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Final Epi Curve
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Braenderup Infections Linked to Nut Butter, 2014plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Human Typhimurium Infections Linked to Laboratory Exposure, 2014plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Advice to Students & Employees in Labs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chia Powder, 2014plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Frozen Feeder Rodents, 2014plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Advice to Pet Owners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2014plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Bearded Dragons, 2014plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Advice to Pet Owners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Heidelberg Infections Linked to Tyson Brand Mechanically Separated Chicken, 2014plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recall & Advice to Institutions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stanley Infections Linked to Raw Cashew Cheese, 2014plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 2013 Outbreaksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Heidelberg Infections Linked to Foster Farms Brand Chicken, 2013plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Timeline of Events
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Mbandaka Infections Linked to Tahini Sesame Paste, 2013plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks, 2013plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Advice to Consumers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2013plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Advice to Consumers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Saintpaul Infections Linked to Imported Cucumbers, 2013plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Advice to Consumers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Heidelberg Infections Linked to Chicken, 2013plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Advice to Consumers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Ground Beef, 2013plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 2012 Outbreaksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Bredeney Infections Linked to Peanut Butter, 2012plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Hedgehogs, 2012plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Advice to Pet Owners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Braenderup Infections Associated with Mangoes, 2012plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Typhimurium and Newport Infections Linked to Cantaloupe, 2012plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Ground Beef, 2012plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Human _Salmonella_ Hadar Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2012plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Advice to Consumers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Human _Salmonella_ Montevideo Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2012plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Advice to Consumers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2012plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Advice to Consumers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Human _Salmonella_ Infantis Infections Linked to Dry Dog Food, 2012plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Information for Pet Owners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Information for Veterinarians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Bareilly and Nchanga Infections Associated with a Raw Scraped Ground Tuna Product, 2012plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Timeline of Events
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles, 2012plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Advice to Consumers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Count Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epi Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Outbreaks Diagram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Resource
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Restaurant Chain A, 2012
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 2010 through 2011 Outbreaksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Typhimurium Infections Linked to Ground Beef
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Heidelberg Infections Linked to Kosher Broiled Chicken Livers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Turkish Pine Nuts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Heidelberg Infections Linked to Ground Turkey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Agona Infections Linked to Whole, Fresh Imported Papayas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts and Spicy Sprouts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Altona and Johannesburg Infections Linked to Chicks and Ducklings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Typhimurium Infections Associated with Lab Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Typhimurium Infections Linked to African Dwarf Frogs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hadar Infections Associated with Turkey Burgers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Panama Infections Linked to Cantaloupe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * I 4,[5],12:i:- Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Enteritidis Infections Associated with Shell Eggs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Chester Infections Associated with Cheesy Chicken & Rice Frozen EntrÃ©e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Typhi (Typhoid Fever) Associated with Frozen Mamey Fruit Pulp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hartford and Baildon Infections Associated with Restaurant Chain A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * I 4,[5],12:i:- Linked to Frozen Rodents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Newport Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Montevideo Infections Linked to Red and Black Pepper/Italian-Style Meats
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 2006 through 2009 Outbreaksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Saintpaul Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pistachio Nuts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Typhimurium Infections Linked to Peanut Butter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Saintpaul Infections Linked to Raw Produce
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Agona Infections Linked to Rice & Wheat Puff Cereal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Litchfield Infections Linked to Cantaloupe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * I 4,[5],12:i:- Infections Linked to Pot Pies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Human Schwarzengrund Infections Linked to Dry Pet Food
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Wandsworth Infections Linked to Veggie Booty
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tennessee Infections Linked to Peanut Butter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Typhimurium Infections Linked to Tomatoes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * For Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Surveillanceplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Salmonella_ Atlasplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 32 Individual Serotypes Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Importance of Serotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Snapshots of Serotypes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communication Materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Reports & Publicationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MMWR Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * References

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Multistate Foodborne Outbreaks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zoonotic Diseases (Diseases from Animals)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Foodborne Illness A-Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Estimates of Foodborne Illness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Report a Foodborne Illness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Foodsafety.govExternal file_external 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External file_external 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * USDA Food Safety and Inspection ServiceExternal file_external 

Follow Salmonella

![Sign up for RSS feed.](/salmonella/images/outbreaks/rss-icon.png)

Sign up for RSS Feed

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM

