

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Contact CDC

Section Navigation

CDC Home

            * Facebook
            * Twitter
            * LinkedIn
            * Email
            * Syndicate

# Report an Accessibility Problem

Minus

Related Pages

### Accessibility Statement

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is committed to making its
electronic and information technologies accessible to individuals with
disabilities by meeting or exceeding the requirements of Section 508 of the
Rehabilitation Act (29 U.S.C. 794d), as amended in 1998. Section 508 is a
federal law that requires agencies to provide individuals with disabilities
equal access to electronic information and data comparable to those who do not
have disabilities, unless an undue burden would be imposed on the agency. The
Section 508 standards are the technical requirements and criteria that are
used to measure conformance within this law. More information on Section 508
and the technical standards can be found at www.section508.govexternal icon.

If you would like to report an accessibility problem with the CDC website,
please e-mail the CDC Webmaster using the form below. Be sure to specify the
web page or file being referenced in reporting the accessibility issue.

Contact Information

**Contact Information**

Name:

Email Address:



Problems or Comments

**Problems or Comments**

Web Address (URL):

Comments

protected by **reCAPTCHA**

Privacy \-  Terms

### Section 508/Accessibility

In 1998, Congress amended the Rehabilitation Act to require federal agencies
to make their electronic and information technology accessible to people with
disabilities. Inaccessible technology interferes with an individual′s ability
to obtain and use information quickly and easily. Section 508 was enacted to
eliminate barriers in information technology, to make available new
opportunities for people with disabilities, and to encourage development of
technologies that will help achieve these goals. The law applies to all
Federal agencies when they develop, procure, maintain, or use electronic and
information technology. Under Section 508 (29 USC 794d), agencies must give
disabled employees and members of the public access to information that is
comparable to the access available to others.

            * Section 508 Lawexternal icon
            * HHS Web Accessibility Statementexternal icon

### Assistance With Accessing CDC Information

Section 508 (29 U.S.C. § 794d) requires that CDC, as a federal agency, provide
electronic and information technology products that are accessible to people
with disabilities. Under Section 508, CDC and other federal agencies must give
disabled employees and members of the public access to this technology that is
comparable to the access available to others. The law applies to all Federal
agencies when they develop, procure, maintain, or use electronic and
information technology.

CDC is committed to providing resources that are accessible to people of all
abilities. If you find that any of our information products, including what
you see on this site, are not in compliance with Section 508, please contact
us by e-mail or phone at (404) 639-3534. When you contact us, please refer to
the specific information found to be non-compliant. This will help us address
the issue more quickly.

Page last reviewed: December 12, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Contact CDC

            * Accessibility
            * All Other Topics
            * Our Web Site

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Contact CDC

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  
1600 Clifton Rd.  
Atlanta, GA  
30329-4027 USA  
800-CDC-INFO  
(800-232-4636)  
TTY: (888) 232-6348  
Contact CDC-INFO

Related Topics

            * CDC A-Z
            * CDC-INFO
            * Emergency Preparedness and Response

![CDC Vital Signs® – Learn about the latest public health data. Read CDC Vital
Signs®…](https://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/vitalsigns/vitalsigns_150x120.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

            * About CDC
            * Jobs
            * Funding
            * Policies
            * File Viewers & Players

            * Privacy
            * FOIA
            * No Fear Act
            * OIG
            * Nondiscrimination
            * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

            * Facebook
            * Twitter
            * Youtube
            * Instagram
  

            * Syndicate
            * CDC TV
            * RSS
            * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

            * Facebook
            * Twitter
            * LinkedIn
            * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

            * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
            * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
            * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
            * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

