

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

_Salmonella_

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

# Four Multistate Outbreaks of Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live
Poultry in Backyard Flocks (Final Update)

Minus

Related Pages

Posted September 24, 2015 4:15 PM ET

These investigations are over. However, live poultry, including those kept in
backyard flocks, remain an important cause of human _Salmonella_ infections in
the United States. More information about _Salmonella_ from live poultry and
the steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection is available.

Highlights

                    * **Read the Advice to Backyard Flock Owners »**
                    * These investigations are over. However, live poultry, including those kept in backyard flocks, remain an important source of human _Salmonella_ infections in the United States.
                    * Backyard flock owners should take steps to protect themselves and their families: 
                      * Always wash hands thoroughly with soap and water right after touching live poultry or anything in the area where the birds live and roam.
                      * Do not let live poultry inside the house.
                      * Learn about additional recommendations to prevent _Salmonella_ infections from live poultry. These recommendations are important and apply to all live poultry, regardless of the age of the birds or where they were purchased.
                    * Mail-order hatcheries, agricultural feed stores, and others that sell or display chicks, ducklings, and other live poultry should provide health-related information to owners and potential purchasers of these birds prior to the point of purchase. This should include information about the risk of acquiring a _Salmonella_ infection from contact with live poultry.
                    * CDC, public health, veterinary, and agriculture officials in many states and the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (USDA-APHIS) investigated four multistate outbreaks of human _Salmonella_ infections linked to contact with live poultry.
                    * 252 people infected with the outbreak strains of _Salmonella_ were reported from 43 states. 
                      * 63 ill people were hospitalized, and no deaths were reported.
                    * Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback findings linked these four outbreaks of human _Salmonella_ infections to contact with chicks, ducklings, and other live poultry from multiple hatcheries. 
                      * 146 (80%) of the 183 ill people who were interviewed reported contact with live poultry in the week before their illness began.
                    * CDC's National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory conducted antibiotic resistance testing on _Salmonella_ isolates collected from 20 ill people infected with one of the outbreak strains. 
                      * 19 (95%) isolates were susceptible to all antibiotics tested on the NARMS panel.
                      * One (5%) isolate was resistant to sulfisoxazole.

Outbreak Summaries

#### Introduction

CDC collaborated with public health, veterinary, and agriculture officials in
many states and with the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Animal and Plant
Health Inspection Service (USDA-APHIS) to investigate four multistate
outbreaks of human _Salmonella_ infections. Results from these investigations
indicated that contact with live poultry was the likely source of these
outbreaks.

Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses
that were part of these outbreaks. PulseNet is the national subtyping network
of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC.
DNA "fingerprinting" is performed on _Salmonella_ bacteria isolated from ill
people by using a technique called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE.
PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify
possible outbreaks. A total of 10 DNA fingerprints ("outbreak strains") were
included in these investigations.

In the four outbreaks, 252 people infected with one of the outbreak strains of
_Salmonella_ were reported from 43 states between January 3, 2015 and
September 6, 2015.

#### Investigation of the Outbreaks

In interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with animals and
foods consumed during the week before becoming ill; 146 (80%) of the 183 ill
people interviewed reported contact with live poultry (e.g., chicks, chickens,
ducks, ducklings) before becoming ill. Ninety-four ill people who had purchase
records available reported purchasing live baby poultry from 41 different
suppliers, including feed supply stores, Co-Ops, "flea markets", friends, and
hatcheries in multiple states. Ill people reported purchasing live poultry for
backyard flocks to produce eggs or meat or to keep as pets. Twenty-eight (41%)
of 69 ill people with complete questionnaires reported keeping baby poultry
indoors, 39 (57%) of 69 reported holding or snuggling baby poultry, and 4 (6%)
of 69 reported kissing baby poultry. These behaviors increase a person's risk
of a _Salmonella_ infection.

CDC's National Antibiotic Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory
conducted antibiotic resistance testing on clinical isolates collected from 20
people infected with one of the outbreak strains. One (5%) isolate was
resistant to sulfisoxazole, and 19 (95%) isolates were susceptible to all
antibiotics tested on the NARMS panel.

Final summaries of the four outbreak investigations are provided below.

#### Outbreak 1: _Salmonella_ Enteritidis Investigation

Sixty-five people infected with the outbreak strains of _Salmonella_
Enteritidis were reported from 18 states. The number of people in each state
was as follows: Arizona (1), California (3), Georgia (1), Indiana (1), Maine
(1), Minnesota (7), New Hampshire (3), Ohio (20), Oklahoma (1), Oregon (3),
South Carolina (2), Tennessee (1), Texas (2), Utah (5), Vermont (2), Virginia
(7), Washington (4), and Wyoming (1).

Illness onset dates ranged from January 3, 2015 to August 4, 2015. Ill people
ranged in age from younger than one year to 81, and the median age was 32.
Fifty-two percent of ill people were male. Among 50 ill people with available
information, 12 (24%) were hospitalized, and no deaths were reported.

#### Outbreak 2: _Salmonella_ Hadar Investigation

Seventy-eight people infected with the outbreak strains of _Salmonella_ Hadar
were reported from 30 states. The number of people in each state was as
follows: Arizona (2), Arkansas (2), California (3), Colorado (1), Delaware
(2), Iowa (1), Kentucky (1), Louisiana (2), Maine (1), Maryland (3),
Massachusetts (1), Michigan (1), Minnesota (1), Missouri (1), Montana (4),
North Carolina (2), New Jersey (2), New Mexico (1), New York (3), Ohio (3),
Oregon (5), Pennsylvania (11), South Carolina (4), South Dakota (2), Texas
(2), Virginia (8), Washington (4), West Virginia (1), Wisconsin (1), Wyoming
(3).

Illness onset dates ranged from February 22, 2015 to August 26, 2015. Ill
people ranged in age from younger than one year to 89, and the median age was
39. Fifty-two percent of ill people were female. Among 51 ill people with
available information, 29 (57 %) were hospitalized, and no deaths were
reported.

#### Outbreak 3: _Salmonella_ Indiana Investigation

Sixty-eight people infected with the outbreak strains of _Salmonella_ Indiana
were reported from 18 states. The number of people in each state was as
follows: Alabama (17), Arkansas (2), California (5), Colorado (1), Georgia
(2), Idaho (1), Maryland (1), Mississippi (13), Nevada (4), New Jersey (2),
New Mexico (1), New York (8), North Carolina (1), Oregon (1), Pennsylvania
(1), South Carolina (6), Tennessee (1), and Texas (1).

Illness onset dates ranged from January 6, 2015 to September 6, 2015. Ill
people ranged in age from younger than one year to 89, and the median age was
2. Fifty-three percent of ill people were female. Among 39 ill people with
available information, 12 (31 %) were hospitalized, and no deaths were
reported.

#### Outbreak 4: _Salmonella_ Muenchen and _Salmonella_ Muenster Investigation

Forty-one people infected with the outbreak strains of _Salmonella_ Muenchen
or _Salmonella_ Muenster were reported from 19 states. The number of people in
each state was as follows: Alabama (3), California (1), Georgia (1), Hawaii
(1), Illinois (1), Indiana (4), Kentucky (4), Michigan (5), New Jersey (2),
New York (1), North Carolina (2), Ohio (3), Pennsylvania (1), Tennessee (5),
Utah (1), Virginia (1), Washington (1), West Virginia (3), and Wisconsin (1).

Illness onset dates ranged from February 26, 2015 to August 10, 2015. Ill
people ranged in age from younger than one year to 77, and the median age was
18. Fifty-six percent of ill people were male. Among 30 ill people with
available information, 10 (33 %) were hospitalized, and no deaths were
reported.

July 30, 2015

#### Investigation Update

CDC continues to collaborate with public health, veterinary, and agriculture
officials in many states and with the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Animal
and Plant Health Inspection Service (USDA-APHIS) to investigate several
multistate outbreaks of human _Salmonella_ infections linked to contact with
live poultry. Since the initial announcement on July 1, 2015, an additional
serotype was identified. A total of 10 DNA fingerprints (outbreak strains) are
now included in these outbreak investigations.

In the four outbreaks, a total of 218 people infected with one of the outbreak
strains of _Salmonella_ have been reported from 41 states as of July 29, 2015.
Illnesses that occurred after July 4, 2015, might not yet be reported due to
the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is
reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks.

In ongoing interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with
animals and foods consumed during the week before becoming ill; to date, 117
(84%) of the 140 ill people interviewed reported contact with live poultry
(e.g., chicks, chickens, ducks, ducklings) before becoming ill. Ninety-four
ill people who had purchase records available reported purchasing live poultry
from 32 different suppliers including feed supply stores, Co-Ops, "flea
markets", friends, and hatcheries in multiple states. Ill people reported
purchasing live poultry for backyard flocks to produce eggs or meat, or to
keep as pets. Many ill people in these outbreaks reported bringing the live
baby poultry into their homes, and others reported kissing or cuddling with
the live poultry. These behaviors increase a person's risk of a _Salmonella_
infection.

To date, CDC's NARMS laboratory conducted antibiotic resistance testing on
clinical isolates collected from 16 ill people infected with one of the
outbreak strains; all isolates were susceptible to all antibiotics tested on
the NARMS panel. CDC's NARMS laboratory continues to conduct antibiotic
resistance testing on additional clinical isolates. Results will be reported
when they become available.

CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory
surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to
interview them. CDC will provide updates when more information is available.
Summaries of each of the four outbreak investigations are provided below.

#### Outbreak 1: _Salmonella_ Enteritidis Investigation

Since the initial announcement on July 1, 2015, 10 additional people infected
with the outbreak strains of _Salmonella_ Enteritidis have been reported from
5 states as of July 29, 2015. The additional ill people have been reported
from the following states: California (2), New Hampshire (2), Ohio (4),
Virginia (1), and Washington (1).

Among the people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began
between January 5, 2015 and July 4, 2015. Ill people range in age from younger
than one year to 74, and the median age is 21. Forty-eight percent of ill
people are female. Among 30 ill people with available information, 7 (23%)
have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported.

#### Outbreak 2: _Salmonella_ Hadar Investigation

Since the initial announcement on July 1, 2015, 5 additional people infected
with the outbreak strain of _Salmonella_ Hadar have been reported from 4
states as of July 29, 2015. The additional ill people have been reported from
the following states: California (2), New York (1), Virginia (1), and
Washington (1).

Among the people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began
between February 24, 2015 and July 6, 2015. Ill people range in age from
younger than one year to 89, and the median age is 38. Fifty-three percent of
ill people are female. Among 48 ill people with available information, 26
(54%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported.

#### Outbreak 3: _Salmonella_ Indiana Investigation

Since the initial announcement on July 1, 2015, 5 additional people infected
with the outbreak strains of _Salmonella_ Indiana have been reported from 4
states as of July 29, 2015. The additional ill people have been reported from
the following states: California (1), New York (2), Pennsylvania (1), and
South Carolina (1).

Among the people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began
between January 5, 2015 and June 24, 2015. Ill people range in age from
younger than one year to 82, and the median age is 2. Fifty-three percent of
ill people are female. Among 30 ill people with available information, 9 (30%)
have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported.

#### Outbreak 4: _Salmonella_ Muenchen or _Salmonella_ Muenster Investigation

Since the initial announcement on July 1, 2015, 17 additional people have
become infected with the outbreak strains of _Salmonella_ Muenchen or
_Salmonella_ Muenster from 12 states as of July 29, 2015. The number of ill
people identified in each state is as follows: Alabama (2), Georgia (1),
Illinois (1), Kentucky (1), Michigan (3), North Carolina (2), New Jersey (2),
New York (1), Virginia (1), Washington (1), Wisconsin (1), and West Virginia
(1). Two DNA fingerprint (outbreak strains) are included in this
investigation.

Among the people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began
between and March 8, 2015 and July 11, 2015. Ill people range in age from
younger than one year to 77, and the median age is 15. Forty-seven percent of
ill people are female. Among 24 ill people with available information, 8 (33%)
have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported.

Initial Announcement

#### July 1, 2015

CDC is collaborating with public health, veterinary, and agriculture officials
in many states and with the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Animal and Plant
Health Inspection Service (USDA-APHIS) to investigate four multistate
outbreaks of human _Salmonella_ infections linked to contact with live
poultry.

Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify
illnesses that may be part of these outbreaks. PulseNet is the national
subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories
coordinated by CDC. DNA "fingerprinting" is performed on _Salmonella_ bacteria
isolated from ill people by using a technique called pulsed-field gel
electrophoresis, or PFGE. PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA
fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. A total of nine DNA fingerprints
(outbreak strains) are included in these four outbreak investigations.

In the four outbreaks, a total of 181 people infected with the outbreak
strains of _Salmonella_ have been reported from 40 states as of June 29, 2015.
The number of ill people identified in each state is as follows: Alabama (17),
Arizona (3), Arkansas (4), California (3), Colorado (2), Delaware (2), Georgia
(4), Indiana (3), Iowa (1), Kentucky (4), Louisiana (2), Maine (2), Maryland
(4), Massachusetts (1), Michigan (3), Minnesota (6), Mississippi (13),
Missouri (1), Montana (3), Nevada (2), New Hampshire (1), New Jersey (3), New
Mexico (2), New York (6), North Carolina (3), Ohio (15), Oklahoma (1), Oregon
(5), Pennsylvania (12), South Carolina (10), South Dakota (2), Tennessee (6),
Texas (5), Utah (4), Vermont (2), Virginia (11), Washington (6), West Virginia
(2), Wisconsin (1), and Wyoming (4).

These outbreaks can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of people
who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve.
Illnesses that occurred after June 1, 2015, might not yet be reported due to
the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is
reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for
Reporting Cases of _Salmonella_ Infection for more details.

In interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with animals and
foods consumed during the week before becoming ill; 82 (86%) of the 95 ill
people interviewed reported contact with live poultry (e.g., chicks, chickens,
ducks, ducklings) before becoming ill. Sixty-four ill people who had purchase
records available reported purchasing live baby poultry from 17 different feed
supply stores and hatcheries in multiple states. Ill people reported
purchasing live poultry for backyard flocks to produce eggs or meat, or to
keep as pets. Many ill people in these outbreaks reported bringing the live
poultry into their homes, and others reported kissing or cuddling with the
live poultry. These behaviors increase a person's risk of a _Salmonella_
infection.

Preliminary findings of multiple traceback investigations of live baby poultry
from homes of ill people have identified multiple hatcheries as the source of
chicks and ducklings. These investigations are ongoing.

The National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring SystemExternal (NARMS) is a
U.S. public health surveillance system that tracks antibiotic resistance in
foodborne and other enteric bacteria found in people, raw meat and poultry,
and food-producing animals. NARMS is a partnership among the CDC, the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA),
and state and local health departments.

The NARMS human surveillance program at CDC monitors antibiotic resistance in
_Salmonella_ and other bacteria isolated from clinical specimens submitted to
NARMS by public health laboratories. CDC's NARMS laboratory conducted
antibiotic resistance testing on clinical isolates collected from seven ill
people infected with one of the outbreak strains; all seven isolates were
susceptible to all antibiotics tested on the NARMS panel. CDC's NARMS
laboratory continues to conduct antibiotic resistance testing on additional
clinical isolates collected from ill persons infected with the outbreak
strains. Results will be reported when they become available.

CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory
surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to
interview them. CDC will provide updates when more information is available.
Summaries of each of the four outbreak investigations are provided below.

#### Outbreak 1: _Salmonella_ Enteritidis Investigation

As of June 29, 2015, 40 people infected with the outbreak strains of
_Salmonella_ Enteritidis have been reported from 16 states. The number of ill
people identified in each state is as follows: Arizona (1), Georgia (2),
Indiana (1), Maine (1), Minnesota (5), New Hampshire (1), Ohio (10), Oklahoma
(1), South Carolina (2), Tennessee (1), Texas (2), Utah (3), Vermont (2),
Virginia (4), Washington (3), and Wyoming (1). Two DNA fingerprints (outbreak
strains) are included in this investigation.

Among the people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began
between January 6, 2015 and June 13, 2015. Ill people range in age from
younger than one year to 81 years, and the median age is 41. Fifty-two percent
of ill people are female. Among the 14 ill people with available information,
3 (21%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported.

#### Outbreak 2: _Salmonella_ Hadar Investigation

As of June 29, 2015, 69 people infected with the outbreak strains of
_Salmonella_ Hadar have been reported from 30 states. The number of ill people
identified in each state is as follows: Arizona (2), Arkansas (2), California
(1), Colorado (1), Delaware (2), Iowa (1), Kentucky (1), Louisiana (2), Maine
(1), Maryland (3), Massachusetts (1), Michigan (1), Minnesota (1), Missouri
(1), Montana (3), New Jersey (2), New Mexico (1), New York (1), North Carolina
(2), Ohio (3), Oregon (4), Pennsylvania (11), South Carolina (3), South Dakota
(2), Texas (2), Virginia (7), Washington (3), Wisconsin (1), West Virginia
(1), and Wyoming (3). One DNA fingerprint (outbreak strain) is included in
this investigation.

Among the people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began
between February 24, 2015 and June 11, 2015. Ill people range in age from
younger than one year to 89 years, and the median age is 37. Fifty-one percent
of ill people are female. Among 30 ill people with available information, 19
(63%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported.

#### Outbreak 3: _Salmonella_ Indiana Investigation

As of June 29, 2015, 56 people infected with the outbreak strains of
_Salmonella_ Indiana have been reported from 16 states. The number of ill
people identified in each state is as follows: Alabama (17), Arkansas (2),
California (2), Colorado (1), Georgia (2), Maryland (1), Mississippi (13),
Nevada (2), New Jersey (1), New Mexico (1), New York (5), North Carolina (1),
Oregon (1), South Carolina (5), Tennessee (1), and Texas (1).  Five DNA
fingerprints (outbreak strains) are included in this investigation.

Among the people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began
between February 20, 2015 and June 11, 2015. Ill people range in age from
younger than one year to 82 years, and the median age is 2. Fifty-two percent
of ill people are female. Among the 28 ill people with available information,
nine (32%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported.

#### Outbreak 4: _Salmonella_ Muenchen Investigation

As of June 26, 2015, 16 people infected with the outbreak strains of
_Salmonella_ Muenchen have been reported from eight states. The number of ill
people identified in each state is as follows: Indiana (2), Kentucky (3),
Michigan (2), Ohio (2), Pennsylvania (1), Tennessee (4), Utah (1), and West
Virginia (1). One DNA fingerprint (outbreak strain) is included in this
investigation.

Among the people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began
between and April 4, 2015 and June 5, 2015. Ill people range in age from
younger than one year to 75 years, and the median age is 21. Sixty-three
percent of ill people are female. Among eight ill people with available
information, two (25%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported.

At A Glance

                    * Case Count: 252
                    * States: 43
                    * Deaths: 0
                    * Hospitalizations: 63

More Information

                    * Advice to Backyard Flock Owners
                    * Signs & Symptoms
                    * Key Resources

CLICK TO VIEW EPI CURVE GRAPHS

![Persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Enteritidis, Hadar,
Indiana, Muenchen, or Muenster, by month of illness onset](/salmonella/live-
poultry-07-15/images/sm-live-poultry-epi-curve-09-24-15.jpg)

CLICK TO VIEW CASE COUNT MAP

![People infected with the outbreak strains of SalmonellaEnteritidis, Hadar,
Indiana, Muenchen and Muenster by state of residence, as of September 23, 2015
\(n=252\)](/salmonella/live-poultry-07-15/images/sm-live-poultry-
map-09-24-15.jpg)

Page last reviewed: July 31, 2015

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Foodborne,
Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases (DFWED)

home _Salmonella_ Homepage

                    * Questions & Answersplus icon
                      * Additional Information
                    * Prevention
                    * Symptoms
                    * Diagnosis & Treatmentplus icon
                      * Diagnostic and Public Health Testing
                    * Current Outbreaksplus icon
                      * Reporting Timeline
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Pet Turtlesplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a tortugas mascota pequeÃ±as
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Cut Fruitplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Ground Beefplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a la carne de res molida
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Turtlesplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a turtugas mascota
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pig Ear Dog Treatsplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Papayasplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a papayas frescas enteras importadas de MÃ©xico
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Karawan brand Tahiniplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a tahini de la marca Karawan
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Backyard Poultryplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brotes de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculados a aves de corral domÃ©sticas
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Raw Tunaplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ Newport vinculado a atÃºn crudo congelado
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melonplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ Carrau vinculado a melÃ³n y sandÃ­a precortados
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                        * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Butterball Brand Ground Turkeyplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado al pavo molido de marca Butterball
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                        * Actualizaciones de la investigaciÃ³n del brote, por fecha
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Hedgehogsplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a los erizos como mascota
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                        * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                    * Previous Outbreaksplus icon
                      * 2018 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Multidrug-Resistant _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Raw Turkey Productsplus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por Salmonella multirresistente vinculado a productos de pavo crudo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Tahini from Achdut Ltd., 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a tahini elaborado por Achdut Ltd.
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Raw Chicken Products, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Advice to Clinicians
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por Salmonella multirresistente vinculado a productos de pollo crudo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Recomendaciones para los mÃ©dicos
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Ground Beef, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a carne molida de res
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Agbeni Infections, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Gravel Ridge Farms Shell Eggs, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado al pollo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chicken, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado al pollo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Hy-Vee Spring Pasta Salad, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por Salmonella vinculado a la ensalada de pasta âHy-Vee Spring Pasta Saladâ
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Kelloggâs Honey Smacks Cereal, 2018plus icon
                          * Salmonella Infections Linked to Kelloggâs Honey Smacks Cereal en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melon, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melon en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Contact with Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Contact with Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Case Count Maps
                        * _Salmonella_ Braenderup Infections Linked to Shell Eggs, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Braenderup Infections Linked to Shell Eggs en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recalls and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Dried Coconut, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Dried Coconut en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall and Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Guinea Pigs, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Guinea Pigs en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Case Count Maps en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Signs & Symptoms en EspaÃ±ol
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chicken Salad, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chicken Salad en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Kratom, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Kratom en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recalls and Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Montevideo Infections Linked to Raw Sprouts, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Raw Sprouts en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Shredded Coconut, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Shredded Coconut en EspaÃ±ol
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Shredded Coconut á» Viá»t Nam [PDF â 3 pages]
                          * Recall and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2017 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Urbana Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Urbana Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Newport & Infantis Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Newport & Infantis Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Anatum Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Anatum Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Turtles, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles, 2017 en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Case Count Maps
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Laboratory Exposure, 2017plus icon
                          * Advice to Students & Employees in Microbiology Laboratories
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry in Backyard Flocksplus icon
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Live Poultry FAQ
                      * 2016 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Heidelberg Infections Linked to Contact with Dairy Calves, 2016plus icon
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                        * _Salmonella_ Oranienburg Infections Linked to Shell Eggs, 2016plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Reading and _Salmonella_ Abony Infections linked to Alfalfa Sprouts, 2016plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps 
                          * Epi Curves 
                          * Signs & Symptoms 
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2016plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Live Poultry FAQs
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Montevideo and _Salmonella_ Senftenberg Infections Linked to Wonderful Pistachios, 2016plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts from One Contaminated Seed Lot, 2016plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Virchow Infections Linked to Raw Meal Organic Shake and Meal Products, 2016plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2015 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) Infections Linked to Sprouted Nut Butter Spreads, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles, 2015plus icon
                          * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Advice to Pet Owners en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Signs & Symptoms 
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Poona Infections Linked to Imported Cucumbers, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Multidrug-Resistant _Salmonella_ I 4,[5],12:i:- and _Salmonella_ Infantis Infections Linked to Pork, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Enteritidis Infections Linked to Raw, Frozen, Stuffed Chicken Entrees Produced by Aspen Foods, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Drug-Resistant _Salmonella_ Enteritidis Infections Linked to Raw, Frozen, Stuffed Chicken Entrees Produced by Barber Foods, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2015plus icon
                          * Advice to Backyard Flock Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Raw Tuna, 2015plus icon
                          * Advice to Retailers & Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Crested Geckos, 2015plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2014 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Bean Sprouts, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                          * Final Case Count Maps
                          * Final Epi Curve
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Braenderup Infections Linked to Nut Butter, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human Typhimurium Infections Linked to Laboratory Exposure, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Students & Employees in Labs
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chia Powder, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Frozen Feeder Rodents, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Bearded Dragons, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Heidelberg Infections Linked to Tyson Brand Mechanically Separated Chicken, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Institutions
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Stanley Infections Linked to Raw Cashew Cheese, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2013 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Heidelberg Infections Linked to Foster Farms Brand Chicken, 2013plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                          * Timeline of Events
                        * _Salmonella_ Mbandaka Infections Linked to Tahini Sesame Paste, 2013plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Saintpaul Infections Linked to Imported Cucumbers, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Heidelberg Infections Linked to Chicken, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Ground Beef, 2013plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2012 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Bredeney Infections Linked to Peanut Butter, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Hedgehogs, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Braenderup Infections Associated with Mangoes, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Typhimurium and Newport Infections Linked to Cantaloupe, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Ground Beef, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Hadar Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Montevideo Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infantis Infections Linked to Dry Dog Food, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Information for Pet Owners
                          * Information for Veterinarians
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Bareilly and Nchanga Infections Associated with a Raw Scraped Ground Tuna Product, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                          * Timeline of Events
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Outbreaks Diagram
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resource
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Restaurant Chain A, 2012
                      * 2010 through 2011 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to Ground Beef
                        * Heidelberg Infections Linked to Kosher Broiled Chicken Livers
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Turkish Pine Nuts
                        * Heidelberg Infections Linked to Ground Turkey
                        * Agona Infections Linked to Whole, Fresh Imported Papayas
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts and Spicy Sprouts
                        * Altona and Johannesburg Infections Linked to Chicks and Ducklings
                        * Typhimurium Infections Associated with Lab Exposure
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to African Dwarf Frogs
                        * Hadar Infections Associated with Turkey Burgers
                        * Panama Infections Linked to Cantaloupe
                        * I 4,[5],12:i:- Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts
                        * Enteritidis Infections Associated with Shell Eggs
                        * Chester Infections Associated with Cheesy Chicken & Rice Frozen EntrÃ©e
                        * Typhi (Typhoid Fever) Associated with Frozen Mamey Fruit Pulp
                        * Hartford and Baildon Infections Associated with Restaurant Chain A
                        * I 4,[5],12:i:- Linked to Frozen Rodents
                        * Newport Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts
                        * Montevideo Infections Linked to Red and Black Pepper/Italian-Style Meats
                      * 2006 through 2009 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Saintpaul Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pistachio Nuts
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to Peanut Butter
                        * Saintpaul Infections Linked to Raw Produce
                        * Agona Infections Linked to Rice & Wheat Puff Cereal
                        * Litchfield Infections Linked to Cantaloupe
                        * I 4,[5],12:i:- Infections Linked to Pot Pies
                        * Human Schwarzengrund Infections Linked to Dry Pet Food
                        * Wandsworth Infections Linked to Veggie Booty
                        * Tennessee Infections Linked to Peanut Butter
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to Tomatoes
                    * For Health Professionals
                    * Surveillanceplus icon
                      * _Salmonella_ Atlasplus icon
                        * 32 Individual Serotypes Reports
                        * Importance of Serotyping
                        * Snapshots of Serotypes
                    * Communication Materials
                    * Reports & Publicationsplus icon
                      * MMWR Articles
                      * References

Related Links

                    * Multistate Foodborne Outbreaks
                    * Zoonotic Diseases (Diseases from Animals)
                    * Foodborne Illness A-Z
                    * Estimates of Foodborne Illness
                    * Report a Foodborne Illness
                    * Foodsafety.govExternal file_external 
                    * U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External file_external 
                    * USDA Food Safety and Inspection ServiceExternal file_external 

Follow Salmonella

![Sign up for RSS feed.](/salmonella/images/outbreaks/rss-icon.png)

Sign up for RSS Feed

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

