https://www.cdc.gov/drugresistance/biggest-threats.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/drugresistance/biggest-threats.html    
                Description: The top 18 drug-resistant threats in the U.S.    
                Keywords: list,  Threats Report,  superbugs,  2013,  deadly,  symptoms, Antibiotic and Antimicrobial Resistance    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Antibiotic / Antimicrobial Resistance (AR / AMR)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Biggest Threats and Data

Minus

Related Pages

![The Threat of Antibiotic Resistance in the United
States](/drugresistance/images/about/ar-threats-report-2019-medium.png)

2019 AR Threats Report pdf icon[PDF - 150 pages]  
To order a free copy, visit CDC-INFO on Demand (Pub ID 300754).

**Previous report:  
**2013 AR Threats Report pdf icon[PDF - 114 pages]

### 2019 AR Threats Report

CDC's _Antibiotic Resistance Threats in the United States, 2019_ (2019 AR
Threats Report) includes the latest national death and infection estimates
that underscore the continued threat of antibiotic resistance in the U.S.

According to the report, **more than 2.8 million antibiotic-resistant
infections occur in the U.S. each year, and more than 35,000 people die** as a
result. In addition, 223,900 cases of _Clostridioides difficile_ occurred in
2017 and at least 12,800 people died.

Dedicated prevention and infection control efforts in the U.S. are working to
reduce the number of infections and deaths caused by antibiotic-resistant
germs, but the number of people facing antibiotic resistance is still too
high. More action is needed to fully protect people.

CDC is concerned about rising resistant infections in the community, which can
put more people at risk, make spread more difficult to identify and contain,
and threaten the progress made to protect patients in healthcare. The
emergence and spread of new forms of resistance remains a concern.

The report lists 18 antibiotic-resistant bacteria and fungi into three
categories based on level of concern to human health--urgent, serious, and
concerning--and highlights:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Estimated infections and deaths since the 2013 report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Aggressive actions taken
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Gaps slowing progress

The report also includes a Watch List with three threats that have not spread
resistance widely in the U.S. but could become common without a continued
aggressive approach.

### About the AR Threats Report

The 2019 AR Threats Report is intended to:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Serve as a reference for information on antibiotic resistance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Provide the latest U.S. antibiotic resistance burden estimates for human health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Highlight emerging areas of concern and additional action needed

In 2013, CDC published the first AR Threats Report, which sounded the alarm to
the danger of antibiotic resistance. The report stated that each year in the
U.S. at least 2 million people get an antibiotic-resistant infection, and at
least 23,000 people die. The 2013 AR Threats Report helped inform the National
Action Plan for Combating Antibiotic-Resistant Bacteria.  The 2013 and 2019
reports do not include viruses (e.g., HIV, influenza) or parasites.

**Bacteria and Fungi Listed in the 2019 AR Threats Report**

Urgent Threats

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Carbapenem-resistant _Acinetobacter_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _Candida auris_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _Clostridioides difficile_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Drug-resistant _Neisseria gonorrhoeae_

Serious Threats

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Drug-resistant _Campylobacter_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Drug-resistant _Candida_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ESBL-producing Enterobacteriaceae
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Vancomycin-resistant _Enterococci_ (VRE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Multidrug-resistant _Pseudomonas aeruginosa_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Drug-resistant nontyphoidal _Salmonella_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Drug-resistant _Salmonella_ serotype Typhi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Drug-resistant _Shigella_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Methicillin-resistant _Staphylococcus aureus_ (MRSA)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Drug-resistant _Streptococcus pneumoniae_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Drug-resistant Tuberculosis

Concerning Threats

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Erythromycin-Resistant Group A _Streptococcus_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clindamycin-resistant Group B _Streptococcus_

Watch List

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Azole-resistant _Aspergillus fumigatus_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Drug-resistant _Mycoplasma genitalium_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Drug-resistant _Bordetella pertussis_

### Urgent Threats

#### Carbapenem-resistant _Acinetobacter_

![Medical illustration of acinetobacter](/drugresistance/images/biggest-
threats/acinetobacter-spp-cdc-medical-illustration.png)

**Type:** Bacteria

**About:** Carbapenem-resistant _Acinetobacter_ cause pneumonia and wound,
bloodstream, and urinary tract infections. Nearly all these infections happen
in patients who recently received care in a healthcare facility.

**Estimated cases in hospitalized patients in 2017** : 8,500

**Estimated deaths in 2017:** 700

**Learn more:**CDC's _Acinetobacter_ website

**Download data:**Carbapenem-resistant _Acinetobacter_ Pathogen Page pdf
icon[PDF - 2 pages]

#### Drug-resistant _Candida auris_ ( _C. auris_ )

![Medical illustration of C. auris](/drugresistance/images/biggest-
threats/c-auris-cdc-medical-illustration.png)

**Type:** Fungus

**About:** _C. auris_ is an emerging multidrug-resistant yeast. It can cause
severe infections and spreads easily between hospitalized patients and nursing
home residents.

**Clinical cases in 2018** : 323

**Learn more** : CDC's _C. auris_ website

**Download data:**Drug-resistant _C. auris_ Pathogen Page pdf icon[PDF - 2
pages]

#### _Clostridioides difficile (C. difficile)_

![Medical illustration of C. difficile](/drugresistance/images/biggest-
threats/c-difficile-cdc-medical-illustration.png)

**Type:** Bacteria

**Also known as:** _C. difficile_ or _C. diff_ , previously _Clostridium_
difficile

**About:** _C. difficile_ causes life-threatening diarrhea and colitis (an
inflammation of the colon), mostly in people who have had both recent medical
care and antibiotics.

**Infections per year:** 223,900

**Deaths per year:** 12,800

**Learn more:** CDC's _C. difficile_ website

**Download data:** _C. difficile_ Pathogen Page pdf icon[PDF - 2 pages]

#### Carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae (CRE)

![Medical illustration of CRE](/drugresistance/images/biggest-threats/cre-cdc-
medical-illustration.png)

**Type:** Bacteria

**Also known as:** Nightmare bacteria

**About** : CRE are a major concern for patients in healthcare facilities.
Some Enterobacteriaceae (a family of germs) are resistant to nearly all
antibiotics, leaving more toxic or less effective treatment options. ** **

**Estimated cases in hospitalized patients in 2017** : 13,100 ** **

**Estimated deaths in 2017** : 1,100

**Learn more:** CDC's CRE website

**Download data:**CRE Pathogen Page pdf icon[PDF - 2 pages]

#### Drug-resistant _Neisseria gonorrhoeae (N. gonorrhoeae)_

![Medical illustration of gonorrhea](/drugresistance/images/biggest-
threats/neisseria-gonorrhoeae-cdc-medical-illustration.png)

**Type:** Bacteria

**Also known as** : Drug-resistant gonorrhea

**About** : _N. gonorrhoeae_ causes the sexually transmitted disease gonorrhea
that can result in life-threatening ectopic pregnancy and infertility, and can
increase the risk of getting and giving HIV. ** **

**Estimated drug-resistant infections per year:** 550,000

**Learn more:** CDC's antibiotic-resistant gonorrhea website

**Download data:**Drug-resistant _N. gonorrhoeae_ Pathogen Page pdf icon[PDF -
2 pages]

Top of Page

### Serious Threats

#### Drug-resistant _Campylobacter_

![Medical illustration of campylobacter](/drugresistance/images/biggest-
threats/campylobacter-spp-cdc-medical-illustration.png)

**Type:** Bacteria

**Also known as:** Campy

**About:  ** _Campylobacter_ usually causes diarrhea (often bloody), fever,
and abdominal cramps, and can spread from animals to people through
contaminated food, especially raw or undercooked chicken.

**Drug-resistance infections per year:** 448,400

**Estimated deaths per year:** 70

**Learn more:** CDC's _Campylobacter_ website

**Download data:**Drug-resistant _Campylobacter_ Pathogen Page pdf icon[PDF -
2 pages]

#### Drug-resistant _Candida_ Species

![Medical illustration of fluconazole-resistant
Candida](/drugresistance/images/biggest-threats/candida-spp-cdc-medical-
illustration.png)

**Type:** Fungus

**About:** Dozens of _Candida_ species--a group of fungi--cause infections,
ranging from mild oral and vaginal yeast infections to severe invasive
infections. Many are resistant to the antifungals used to treat them. ** **

**Estimated cases in hospitalized patents in 2017** : 34,800 ** **

**Deaths in 2017** : 1,700

**Learn more:** CDC's _Candida_ website

**Download data:**Drug-resistant _Candida_ Species Pathogen Page pdf icon[PDF
- 2 pages]

#### ESBL-producing Enterobacteriaceae

![Medical illustration of E. coli, an example of extended-spectrum beta-
lactamase producing Enterobacteriaceae](/drugresistance/images/biggest-
threats/ecoli-cdc-medical-illustration.png)

**Type:** Bacteria

**A** **lso known as** : Extended-spectrum β-lactamase ** **

**About:** ESBL-producing Enterobacteriaceae are a concern in healthcare
settings and the community. They can spread rapidly and cause or complicate
infections in healthy people.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ESBL stands for extended-spectrum beta-lactamase. ESBLs are enzymes that break down commonly used antibiotics, such as penicillins and cephalosporins, making them ineffective. ** **

**Estimated cases in hospitalized patients in 2017** : 197,400 ** **

**Estimated deaths in 2017** : 9,100

**Learn more:**CDC's ESBL-producing Enterobacteriaceae website

**Download data:**ESBL-producing Enterobacteriaceae Pathogen Page pdf icon[PDF
- 2 pages]

#### Vancomycin-resistant _Enterococcus_ (VRE)

![Medical illustration of Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus
\(VRE\)](/drugresistance/images/biggest-threats/vre-cdc-medical-
illustration.png)

**Type:** Bacteria

**About:** Enterococci can cause serious infections for patients in healthcare
settings, including bloodstream, surgical site, and urinary tract infections.

**Estimated cases in hospitalized patients in 2017** : 54,500 ** **

**Estimated deaths in 2017** : 5,400

**Learn more:**CDC's VRE in Healthcare Settings website

**Download data:** VRE Pathogen Page pdf icon[PDF - 2 pages]

#### Multidrug-resistant _Pseudomonas aeruginosa_ ( _P. aeruginosa_ )

![Medical illustration of multidrug-resistant Pseudomonas
aeruginosa](/drugresistance/images/biggest-threats/pseudomonas-spp-cdc-
medical-illustration.png)

**Type:** Bacteria

**About:** _P. aeruginosa_ infections usually occur in people with weakened
immune systems, and can be particularly dangerous for patients with chronic
lung diseases. ** **

**Estimated cases in hospitalized patients in 2017** : 32,600 ** **

**Estimated deaths** **in 2017** : 2,700

**Learn more:** CDC's _P. aeruginosa_ website

**Download data:**Multidrug-resistant _P. aeruginosa_ Pathogen Page pdf
icon[PDF - 2 pages]

#### Drug-resistant nontyphoidal _Salmonella_

![Medical illustration of Drug-resistant non-typhoidal
salmonella](/drugresistance/images/biggest-threats/non-typhoidal-salmonella-
cdc-medical-illustration.png)

**Type:** Bacteria

**About:** Nontyphoidal _Salmonella_ can spread from animals to people through
food, and usually causes diarrhea, fever, and abdominal cramps. Some
infections spread to the blood and can have life-threatening complications. **
**

**Estimated drug-resistant infections per year** : 212,500

**Estimated deaths per year:** 70

**Learn more:** CDC's _Salmonella_ website

**Download data:** Drug-resistant nontyphoidal _Salmonella_ Pathogen Page pdf
icon[PDF - 2 pages]

#### Drug-resistant _Salmonella_ serotype Typhi

![Medical illustration of drug-resistant Salmonella serotype
typhi](/drugresistance/images/biggest-threats/salmonella-typhi-cdc-medical-
illustration.png)

**Type:** Bacteria

**Also known as:** Typhoid fever ** **

**About:** _Salmonella_ Typhi causes a serious disease called typhoid fever,
which can be life-threatening. Most people in the U.S. become infected while
traveling to countries where the disease is common.

**Estimated drug-resistant infections per year** : 4,100

**Estimated deaths per year** : Less than 5 ** **

**Learn more:** CDC's Typhoid Fever website

**Download data:**Drug-resistant _Salmonella_ serotype Typhi Pathogen Page pdf
icon[PDF - 2 pages]

#### Drug-resistant _Shigella_

![Medical illustration of shigella](/drugresistance/images/biggest-
threats/shigella-spp-cdc-medical-illustration.png)

**Type:** Bacteria

**About:  ** _Shigella_ spreads in feces through direct contact or through
contaminated surfaces, food, or water. Most people with _Shigella_ infections
develop diarrhea, fever, and stomach cramps.

**Estimated drug-resistant infections per year** : 77,000

**Estimated deaths per year** : Less than 5

**Learn more:**CDC's _Shigella_ website

**Download data:**Drug-resistant _Shigella_ Pathogen Page pdf icon[PDF - 2
pages]

#### Methicillin-resistant _Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus)_ (MRSA)

![Medical illustration of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus
\(MRSA\)](/drugresistance/images/biggest-threats/mrsa-cdc-medical-
illustration.png)

**Type** : Bacteria

**Also known as:** Resistant staph (short for _Staphylococcus_ )

**About** : _S. aureus_ are common bacteria that spread in healthcare
facilities and the community. MRSA can cause difficult-to-treat staph
infections because of resistance to some antibiotics.

**Estimated cases in hospitalized patients in 2017** : 323,700 ** **

**Estimated deaths in 2017** : 10,600 ** **

**Learn more:**CDC's MRSA website

**Download data:**MRSA Pathogen Page pdf icon[PDF - 2 pages]

#### Drug-resistant _Streptococcus pneumoniae (S. pneumoniae)_

![Medical illustration of drug-resistant Streptococcus
pneumoniae](/drugresistance/images/biggest-threats/archive/strep-pneu-cdc-
medical-illustration.png)

**Type** : Bacteria

**Also known as** : Pneumococcus

**About:** _S. pneumoniae_ causes pneumococcal disease, which can range from
ear and sinus infections to pneumonia and bloodstream infections. ** **

**Estimated infections in 2014** : 900,000 ** **

**Estimated deaths in 2014** : 3,600 ** **

**Learn more:**CDC's _S. pneumoniae_ website

**Download data:** Drug-resistant _S. pneumoniae_ Pathogen Page pdf icon[PDF -
2 pages]

#### Drug-resistant Tuberculosis

![Medical illustration of drug-resistantTuberculosis
\(TB\)](/drugresistance/images/biggest-threats/strep-pneu-cdc-medical-
illustration.png)

**Type** : Bacteria

**A** **lso known as:** TB, multidrug-resistant TB (MDR TB), or extensively
drug-resistant TB (XDR TB), _Mycobacterium tuberculosis_ ( _M. tuberculosis_ )

**About:** TB is caused by the bacteria _M. tuberculosis_ , and is among the
most common infectious diseases and a frequent cause of death worldwide. ** **

**Drug-resistant TB cases in 2017:** 847

**Deaths in 2017** : 62

**Learn more:**CDC's TB website

**Download data:** Drug-resistant TB Pathogen Page pdf icon[PDF - 2 pages]

Top of Page

### Concerning Threats

#### Erythromycin-resistant Group A _Streptococcus_

![Medical illustration of erythromycin-resistant Group A
Streptococcus](/drugresistance/images/biggest-threats/archive/strep-pyogenes-
group-a-cdc-medical-illustration.png)

**Type** : Bacteria

**A** **lso known as:** Resistant group A strep, GAS ** **

**About:** GAS can cause many different infections that range from minor
illnesses to serious and deadly diseases, including strep throat, pneumonia,
flesh-eating infections, and sepsis. ** **

**Estimated drug-resistant infections in 2017** : 5,400 ** **

**Estimated deaths in 2017** : 450

**Learn more:**CDC's GAS website

**Download data:**GAS Pathogen Page pdf icon[PDF - 2 pages]

#### Clindamycin-resistant Group B _Streptococcus_

![Medical illustration of clindamycin-resistant Group B
Streptococcus](/drugresistance/images/biggest-threats/archive/strep-
agalactiae-group-b-cdc-medical-illustration.png)

**Type** : Bacteria

**A** **lso known as:** Resistant group B strep, GBS

**About:** GBS can cause severe illness in people of all ages. ** **

**Estimated drug-resistant infections in 2016** : 13,000 ** **

**Estimated deaths in 2016** : 720

**Learn more:**CDC's GBS website

**Download data:**GBS Pathogen Page pdf icon[PDF - 2 pages]

Top of Page

### Watch List

#### Azole-resistant _Aspergillus fumigatus  _

![Medical illustration of azole-resistant A.
fumigatus](/drugresistance/images/biggest-threats/a-fumigatus-cdc-medical-
illustration.png)

_Aspergillus _is a fungus that can cause life-threatening infections in people
with weakened immune systems. These infections are treated with antifungals
called azoles. Azoles are also increasingly used in agriculture to prevent and
treat fungal diseases in crops. Azole use in human medicine and agriculture
can contribute to resistance to antifungal medicines **.**

#### Drug-resistant _Mycoplasma genitalium_ ( _M. genitalium_ )

![Medical illustration of drug-resistant M.
genitalium](/drugresistance/images/biggest-threats/m-genitalium-cdc-medical-
illustration.png)

_M. genitalium_ bacteria are sexually transmitted and can cause urethritis in
men (inflammation of the urethra) and may cause cervicitis in women
(inflammation of the cervix). Few antibiotics are available to treat _M.
genitalium_ infections. Resistance to azithromycin, which has been recommended
for treatment, is high across the globe.

#### Drug-resistant _Bordetella pertussis_ ( _B. pertussis_ )

![Medical illustration of drug-resistant B.
pertussis](/drugresistance/images/biggest-threats/b-pertussis-cdc-medical-
illustration.png)

Pertussis, a respiratory illness commonly known as whooping cough, is a very
contagious disease caused by a type of bacteria called _B. pertussis_. It can
cause serious and sometimes deadly complications, especially in babies.

Top of Page

Page last reviewed: March 13, 2020

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Healthcare
Quality Promotion (DHQP)

home Antibiotic / Antimicrobial Resistance (AR / AMR)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Antibiotic Resistanceplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How Antibiotic Resistance Happens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Where Resistance Spreads
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 5 Things to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Biggest Threats & Dataplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tracking Threats
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Protect Yourself and Your Family
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Healthcare Providers: Protect People
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Vets: Protect Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Food & Food Animals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About the AR Lab Networkplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How Labs Work Together
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How to Participate: Lab Testingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * FAQ: ExAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What CDC is Doing: AR Solutions Initiativeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Investing in States: Map
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Lab Capacity: AR Lab Network
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Food & Food Animals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthcare Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Community Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Advances & Innovationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Innovative Projects: BAA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Apply for CDC Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Stories: Solutions in Actionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Exploring New Approaches to Diagnose _Clostridiodes difficile_ Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tailoring Antibiotic Treatment For Patients with Cystic Fibrosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC is Taking Global Action to Fight AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tracking Antibiotic Resistance in Kenya and Senegal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC Core Elements to Help Resource-limited Settings Improve Antibiotic Use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Antibiotic Resistance: A Global Threat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Combating Antimicrobial Resistance in Vietnam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pilot Program Accelerates Antibiotic Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stop Spread of Unusual Antibiotic Resistance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stopping _C. auris_ in an Oklahoma Hospital
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * New CDC Network Established as Fungal Threat Emerges
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _C. auris_ : CDCâs Response to a Global Emerging Threat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Improving Antibiotic Prescribing with Rapid Diagnostics and Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC and Partners Tackle Drug-Resistant TB in India
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Newly Reported Gene, _mcr_ -1, Threatens Last-Resort Antibiotics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * U.S. Actionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Forum on Antibiotic Stewardship, 2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * National Action Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * National Strategy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Presidential Advisory Council (PACCARB)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Combat Resistance Globallyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Transatlantic Taskforce (TATFAR)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The AMR Challenge
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * United Nations General Assembly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Latest News & Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheets & Graphics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports & Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Social Media Cards & Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Antibiotic Resistance Isolate Bank

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit



**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM

