https://www.cdc.gov/globalhealth/resources/reports/accomplishments/2018/vaccination-research-for-action.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/globalhealth/resources/reports/accomplishments/2018/vaccination-research-for-action.html    
                Description: None    
                Keywords: Global Health    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Global Health

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate

# Vaccination Research for Action

Minus

Related Pages

### **Vaccination Coverage Among Displaced Rohingyas in Bangladesh**

![A Rohingya gathering. Credit: Mohamed
Jalloh.](/globalhealth/resources/reports/accomplishments/2018/images/Rohingya-
gathering-medium.jpg)

A Rohingya gathering. Credit: Mohamed Jalloh.

From November 2017 through January 2018, more than 4,000 suspected cases of
diphtheria and 30 diphtheria-related deaths were reported among displaced
Rohingya refugees in Cox's Bazar District, Bangladesh. In January 2018, CDC
conducted a qualitative assessment to understand vaccination barriers and
opportunities to enhance vaccine demand among refugees. The assessment
consisted of focus group discussions and key informant interviews with mothers
and fathers who had children under 5 years old, community volunteers, _majhis_
(camp leaders), Islamic religious leaders, traditional and spiritual healers,
and teachers. Although participants understood vaccination as an important
intervention to prevent childhood diseases, they reported numerous barriers to
vaccination, including concerns about multiple vaccines given on the same day,
worries about vaccination side effects, and lack of sensitivity to cultural
gender norms at vaccination sites. Vaccine demand and acceptance were enhanced
by improving vaccine delivery practices and engaging community leaders to
address religious and cultural barriers.

### **Innovations in Fractional Dose of Yellow Fever Vaccine**

Because of the increased use of and demand for yellow fever (YF) vaccine,
global stockpiles have been depleted. Therefore, in 2016, WHO issued a new
recommendation that a fractional (1/5) YF vaccine (fYF) dose could be used for
outbreak response when there is a shortage of vaccine, based on limited
evidence available from clinical trials in adults. However, WHO identified an
urgent need to compile immunogenicity data for fYF in children and infants. In
response to this request, CDC initiated two fYF immunogenicity studies; the
findings of one of these studies conducted in the Democratic Republic of the
Congo was published in 2018. The fractional dose was shown to be highly
effective at providing protective immunity for at least 1 year in people at
least 2 years old and was particularly effective in generating an immune
response in those with low levels of or no preexisting antibodies. This was
the first study of fYF vaccination to include children and is critical to
informing global yellow fever vaccination policy. Planning and training has
been completed for a second study to evaluate fYF immunogenicity in children
under 2 years old in Uganda, and enrollment began in March 2019.

### **The Promise of an Experimental Malaria Vaccine**

In 2017, 219 million cases of malaria and 435,000 related deaths occurred
worldwide, many of them in children under 5 years of age in sub-Saharan
Africa. Working to help expand available interventions, CDC has continued to
evaluate promising new vaccines and, in 2018, collaborated with the National
Institutes of Health, Sanaria, and other partners to evaluate the safety of
and response to an experimental malaria vaccine (PfSPZ) in young children.
Data collection and analysis were completed, and reporting is underway. In
addition, in 2018 CDC and a consortium of partners were selected to lead an
evaluation of pilot implementation of another malaria vaccine (RTS,S/AS01) in
western Kenya. This activity provides additional critical information about
feasibility, impact, and safety of this vaccine.

Page last reviewed: May 29, 2019

Content source: Global Health

home Global Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * What is CDC Doingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC and the Global Health Security Agendaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Infectious Diseases Travel Fast and Far
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC Driven Progress
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Outbreak Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sustainable Investment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Multisector Solutions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Road Ahead
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Global Health Protection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Immunization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * HIV & TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Malaria & Parasitic Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Other Diseases & Threats
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Food & Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Where We Workplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Download Country Fact Sheets 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Who We Areplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Our Leadership
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Our Organization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Our Partnerships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Our Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Our Strategy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Blog
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Newsroomplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Global Health Expertsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Rebecca Martin, PhD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Hamid Jafari, MD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nancy Knight, MD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Monica Parise, MD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * W. William Schluter, MD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Hank Tomlinson, PhD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ray R. Arthur, PhD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Global Health Topicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Global Health Security
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Laboratory Science
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Malaria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Measles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Neglected Tropical Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Polio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tuberculosis (TB)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Yellow Fever
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * News Releases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Featured Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Publicationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Publication Topics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Publications by Date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * In the News
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Newsletter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Photo Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Dear Colleague Letters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Social Media Cards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Social Media Toolkits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Photos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Syndicate Our Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CGH Accomplishments 2018plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Impact by the Numbers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Advancing Global Health Security
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Outbreaks and Emergency Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ending the Burden of Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * HIV Research, Policy, and Practice
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Vaccination Research for Action
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Malaria and Parasitic Disease Control in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Technology and Innovation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Annual Reportplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2017 Annual Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2016 Annual Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jobs & Opportunitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Employment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Training, Fellowships, & Internships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Volunteering
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Contracting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Students & Recent Graduates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Returned Peace Corps Volunteers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * IETA Programplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Assignments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Eligibility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Application Process

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ![Facebook Icon](https://www.cdc.gov/globalhealth/homepage/images/icons/fb-icon.png)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ![Twitter Icon](https://www.cdc.gov/globalhealth/homepage/images/icons/twitter-icon.png)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ![Instagram Icon](https://www.cdc.gov/globalhealth/homepage/images/icons/ig-icon.png)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ![YouTube Icon](https://www.cdc.gov/globalhealth/homepage/images/icons/youtube-icon.png)
  
  

Social_govd Get Email Updates

Get CDC's free global health newsletter each week! Enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM

