https://www.cdc.gov/globalhivtb/who-we-are/events/world-tb-day/worldtbday.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/globalhivtb/who-we-are/events/world-tb-day/worldtbday.html    
                Description: Each year on March 24, CDC joins the global community to recognize World Tuberculosis (TB) Day â an important moment to unite in renewed commitment to ending TB, an airborne disease that knows no borders.    
                Keywords: vmmc, art, prep, PEPFAR, HIV, AIDS, Global HIV, Global AIDS, Global TB, Global Tuberculosis, TB, Tuberculosis, Treatments, Statistics, STD, CDC, HIV Resources, sexually transmitted diseases, World TB Day, Global HIV/AIDS    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Global HIV & Tuberculosis

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate

# World TB Day 2020

Minus

Related Pages

![It's Time to End TB - CDC DGHT World TB Day
2020](/globalhivtb/images/Banner-WTBD2020-DGHT.jpg)

Each year on March 24, CDC joins the global community to recognize World
Tuberculosis (TB) Day - an important moment to unite in renewed commitment to
ending TB, an airborne disease that knows no borders.

In partnership with host-country governments, CDC is on the frontlines helping
to sustain country-led efforts and to drive progress in this effort, bringing
to bear a combination of scientific expertise and on-the-ground experience in
diagnosing, curing, and preventing all forms of TB at home and around the
world.

## Leadership Statement

CDC Director Dr. Robert Redfield discusses progress to date in the fight
against TB and the need to accelerate efforts to control this epidemic at home
and abroad.

![avatar of CDC Director Robert
Redfield](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d2/Robert_R._Redfield.jpg)**Message
from the CDC Director Robert R. Redfield, MD**  
World TB Day is observed annually on March 24th to commemorate Dr. Robert
Koch's announcement of his discovery of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the
bacillus that causes tuberculosis (TB). Worldwide, TB remains the world's
deadliest infectious disease killer with an estimated 10 million people
developing TB disease each year, and approximately 4,100 persons losing their
lives every day. Globally, CDC is on the frontlines in the world's highest
burden countries to find, cure, and prevent all forms of TB. Our work helps to
expand access to improved diagnostic methods; strengthen and expand laboratory
capacity, surveillance systems, and prevention and treatment programs; and
build workforce and research capacity.  
**Clickhere for the full message.**

**Message from Hank Tomlinson, PhD, Director of CDC 's Division of Global HIV
& TB**  
"We are at a key moment in the global fight against tuberculosis. Tremendous
progress has been made and, yet, this preventable, curable infection still
claims more lives than any other infectious disease or epidemic. As leaders
come together on World TB Day and again at the United Nations High Level
Meeting on TB in September, the time has come to double down on our TB
prevention programs and investments. Today, we have the tools to turn the tide
against the TB epidemic; the question is, do we have the political will? I'm
convinced the answer is yes."

> CDC Global on Thursday, August 24, 2017

## Transforming the Fight to End TB Around the Globe

![It's time to end TB: Changing the Course of the Global TB
Epidemic](https://i.ibb.co/frhRzct/Time-To-End-TB.png)The global community has
made substantial progress and investments in support of global initiatives to
end TB. Between 2000 and 2018, more than 58 million lives were saved through
global TB efforts. Today, we stand at a critical juncture in the fight to end
TB worldwide. It has been almost two years since the historic United Nations
High Level Meeting on TB, when Member States committed to meeting the
following targets by 2022: treating 40 million people, including 3.5 million
children with TB and 1.5 million people with drug-resistant TB; and providing
TB preventive treatment (TPT) to 30 million people. Read More

## CDC on the Frontlines

CDC stands at the forefront of global efforts to find, cure, and prevent TB.

![The End of Global TB image of Sarita Shah, Associate Chief for Science
Global TB Branch](https://i.ibb.co/zJ70Tqr/Magnifecents-Jounrey-wtbd.jpg)

**Faces from the Frontlines**  
View images and read stories of those at the forefront of CDC's global TB
response as part of the U.S. President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief
(PEPFAR) - individuals whose efforts and innovations are helping to transform
the TB epidemic."Read More >

![IT'S TIME, END TB! World TB Day promotion](/globalhivtb/images/WTBD-
ItsTimeEndTB.jpg)

**IT'S TIME, END TB!**  
World TB Day commemorates the date in 1882 when Dr. Robert Koch announced his
discovery of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the bacteria that causes TB. This
year's World TB Day theme "It's TIME!" highlights CDC's efforts to eliminate
TB in the United States and around the world. Read more >

![World TB Day MMWR image for article story](/globalhivtb/images/WTBD-
MMWRFeature.jpg)

**World TB Day MMWR**  
An analysis of global TB surveillance data found that in 2018, an estimated 10
million persons with incident TB and 1.5 million TB-related deaths occurred
worldwide, representing 2% and 5% declines from 2017.Read More >

## Latest Research

New research highlights CDC's leadership in strengthening TB surveillance,
guidelines, and laboratory systems worldwide.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * A recent CDC analysis published in the Bio Med Central Medical journalexternal icon evaluated the impact of interventions on early antiretroviral therapy (ART) mortality. Results show the interventions, aimed at strengthening intensified case finding, combined with active tracing to support patient retention were associated with increased TB case finding and lower early ART mortality.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * In a recent study published in The Lancetexternal icon, the Pneumonia Etiology Research for Child Health (PERCH) Study Group found TB to be among the top ten causes of pneumonia among hospitalized children under five years of age without HIV infection. This study, completed in African and Asian countries, continues to inform efforts to develop stronger diagnostics and treatment for children with TB as well as efforts to develop an effective vaccine.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * In a recent study published in Emerging Infectious Diseasesexternal icon journal, researchers  conducted a meta-analysis for treatment outcomes among children with  bacteriologically confirmed extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis (XDR-TB) from 1999-2013.  These fourteen studies included detail of only 37 cases of XDR-TB over a 15-year period, underscoring the lack of data regarding the diagnosis and treatment of children with this most severe form of TB. However, more than 80% of the 37 children included in this study had favorable treatment outcomes with mortality rates significantly lower than adults with XDR-TB, which shows promise for successfully treating XDR-TB in children. Further evaluation of effective and safe regimens for children with XDR-TB is needed, along with better data collection for children with drug-resistant TB.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * In a recent study published in the International Journal of Tuberculosis and Lung Diseaseexternal icon, researchers aimed to assess current status of Tuberculosis preventive treatment (TPT) implementation in countries supported by the US President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR).  TPT was included in national guidelines in 33 (94%) PEPFAR countries, but only 21 (60%) reported nationwide programmatic TPT implementation. Study authors highlight improved leadership and coordination between HIV and TB programs as factors required for successful TPT scale up.

## Global TB Elimination Champions

On World TB Day 2020, CDC's "Global TB Elimination Champions" highlights
organizations, individuals, and initiatives that have made meaningful
contributions to end TB around the world. Click on the drop-down links below
for more information on the unique contributions of these TB champions toward
ending global TB.

Namibia National Tuberculosis and Leprosy Control Program (NTLP)

![image of DGHT TB Champion Carlos Manuel Langa, Community Health
Worker](https://i.ibb.co/JBF3BKk/1-Namibia-NTLP-Photo.jpg)As part of the
Government of Namibia's Ministry of Health and Social Services, the Namibia
National Tuberculosis and Leprosy Control Program has taken a proactive role
in training health care workers to use point-of-care lipoarabinomannan (LAM)
urine tests to improve TB diagnosis. By 29 February 2020, six of the fourteen
regions in Namibia will be trained in using TB-LAM. Three regions that have
completed the TB-LAM training so far have already identified persons with TB
who would have been missed by conventional diagnostic methods. For its
important efforts to drive down TB incidence and end TB in our lifetime,
Namibia's NTLP is recognized as a Global Tuberculosis Champion.

Daniel Magesa MD, MMED- US Embassy, CDC Tanzania

![image of DGHT TB Saujina Simango, TB
Patient](https://i.ibb.co/9w6XfsG/2-Daniel-Magesa-Photo.jpg)Daniel Magesa
leads U.S. Government, host government and partner engagement to scale up
Tuberculosis Preventive Treatment (TPT) among people living with HIV through
capacity building and using data to inform programmatic action. Through his
efforts, more clients have both initiated and completed TPT. Tanzania's
overall TPT completion rate has improved from 25.8% in 2017 to 86.4% today.
Because his efforts play a critical role in reducing TB transmission and
saving lives, Dr. Magesa is recognized as a Global Tuberculosis Champion.

CDC Ethiopia Team-Beniam Feleke, Tefera Girma, Fana Tefera, Steven Becknell

![Image of DGHT TB Champion Herminia Sibanda, Community Health
Worker](https://i.ibb.co/SKPrrW3/3-CDC-Ethiopia-Team-Photo.jpg)In April 2019,
CDC Ethiopia implemented a Tuberculosis Preventive Treatment (TPT)
Acceleration campaign aimed at improving TPT uptake and completion rates.
Following the implementation, 114 high load facilities saw significant
improvement in TPT uptake including a ten-fold increase in Addis Ababa. Due to
their commitment and contribution in planning and implementing innovative
approaches to accelerate TPT at high antiretroviral treatment (ART) client
load facilities in Ethiopia, CDC Ethiopia's team members Beniam Feleke, Tefera
Girma, Fana Tefera, Steven Becknell are recognized as Global Tuberculosis
Champions.

Botswana TB Preventive Treatment (TPT) Scale-Up Team

![image of DGHT TB Champion Vivia Panguana, Laboratory
Technician](https://i.ibb.co/0t259Cn/4-CDC-Botswana-Photo.jpg)Despite a
decline in TB notification in Botswana, TB/HIV comorbidity remains high at 50
percent. Although TPT guidelines previously existed, they were not widely
supported, which meant there was almost no TPT implementation for nearly a
decade. In April 2019, CDC Botswana leadership and country stakeholders
reintroduced TPT guidelines which were quickly implemented and brought to
scale. Due to this recent scale-up, Botswana is now on track to initiate
100,000 persons living with HIV on TPT in 2020. Because of their commitment to
scaling up TPT in Botswana, CDC Botswana's team--Dinah Ramaabya, Bornapate
Nkomo, Goabaone Rankgoane, Cynthia Caiphus, Chawangwa Mogongo, and Tefera
Agizew-- are recognized as Global Tuberculosis Champions.

Neo Hutiri, TB Survivor and Founder of Technovera

![](https://i.ibb.co/swPzBCP/5-Neo-Hutiri-South-Africa-Photo.jpg)In 2014, Neo
Hutiri was diagnosed with TB and started his treatment at a public clinic in
Bophelong township in Vanderbijlpark, located in Gauteng province south of
Johannesburg. During his treatment, his biggest challenge was the long waiting
times at the clinic. After losing over three hours of his time each day, and
seeing other patients have to miss work just to collect their medicine, Neo
was motivated to develop an innovation for access to medicine in South
Africa's healthcare system. The passionate Industrial Engineer combined his
skills and lived experience to invent the 'Pelebox', a system that enables
patients to collect prescribed medication within seconds. Healthcare workers
securely stock digital lockers with prepackaged prescription refills, and
patients access their medicine discretely using their mobile devices at the
locker. Due to Neo's passion, innovation and dedication to expanding access to
TB treatment in South Africa, he is recognized as a Global Tuberculosis
Champion.

Katlego Motlhaoleng, TB/HIV Public Health Specialist, CDC South Africa

![image of DGHT TB Champion Share India, Non-Governmental
Organization](https://i.ibb.co/L6FsqJs/6-Katlego-Motlhaoleng-South-Africa-
Photo.png)Katlego Motlhaoleng, a TB/HIV Public Health Specialist at CDC South
Africa, dedicates her work towards stakeholder engagement aimed at
strengthening TB education and awareness among health care workers. As she
sees it, information dissemination is key to solving the world's most pressing
health problems including here in South Africa. Katlego recently led a TB
session at the South African Young Academy of Science that prompted
discussions on how to shape the quality of health care delivery; increase
access to care and improve outcomes for patients with TB. After the session,
healthcare workers gained the knowledge and skills to benefit the TB/HIV field
and public health. Because of Katlego's commitment to the strengthening TB
education and awareness, she is recognized as a Global Tuberculosis Champion.

Zambia TB Preventive Treatment (TPT) Surge Committee

![image of DGHT TB Champion e-NISCHIT](https://i.ibb.co/hsk4JZ2/7-Zambia-TB-
Champion-Patrick-Lungu.jpg)The Tuberculosis Preventive Treatment (TPT) Surge
Committee in Zambia includes representatives from Ministry of Health of
Zambia, provincial health and tertiary care facilities, civil society, and
United States' government agencies. This committee has galvanized political
will at the highest levels of government and throughout the community and put
into place the resources and support needed to massively scale-up of TPT so
every Zambian living with HIV can access this life-saving treatment. Already,
their efforts have seen three-fold increases in TPT provision in the early
Pathfinder facilities with a nationwide launch of their program set for World
TB Day 2020. The committee has committed to providing TPT to more than 700,000
people living with HIV in Zambia by the end of 2020. Zambia's TPT Surge
Committee--Dr. Patrick Lungu, Dr. Lloyd Mulenga, Dr. Maureen Simwenda, Dr.
Monde Muyoyeta, Ernest Mwila, Dr. Cirspin Moyo, Dr. James Simpungwe, Dr. Nancy
Kassesse, Dr. Rehab Chimzizi, Morton Khunga, Dr. Luunga Ziko, Mwanashimbala
Boyd, Brittany Moore--are recognized as Global TB Champions.

Joyce Sibanda, National Community Services Coordinator- Ministry of Health
Eswatini and Sifiso Nzima, Community Health Volunteer

![image of DGHT TB Champion Albertina Zodwa Nyatsi, Community
Activist](https://i.ibb.co/p2xVZd9/8-Sibanda-Siphiso-TB-
Champion2020.jpg)Community health volunteers are the backbone of efforts to
find and cure cases of TB, and this is especially true in the rural,
mountainous regions of Eswatini. Through community services programs overseen
by Joyce Sibanda in Eswatini, community health workers like Sifiso Nzima are
given bicycles that allow them to venture out to hard-to-reach areas to visit
families affected by TB. This outreach allows for follow-up visits, screening
of household contacts, and supportive counseling. During one such visit,
Sifiso identified a two-year old girl who had contracted TB from her father.
He facilitated her evaluation, diagnosis, and treatment. Sifiso supports
dozens of families each year and is part of the reason Eswatini's TB incidence
and mortality rates continue to fall as more people with TB are found and
cured. Sifiso bikes hundreds of kilometers each month to visit families
affected by TB, providing screening, support and advice because he's seen the
impact TB has had on his community, and he believes we must do all that we can
to end TB now. Because of Joyce and Sifiso's important work to end TB in their
community, they are recognized as Global TB Champions.

Ejigayehu Damtew, MPH-Program Manager, Love in Action Ethiopia (LIAE)

![image of DGHT TB Champion Grisel Rodríguez Cuns, Medical
Microbiologist](https://i.ibb.co/L6ZfDmJ/9-Ejigayehu-Damtew-
Photo.jpg)Eligayehu Damtew has worked in TB elimination for 12 years now. She
has dedicated her life to eliminating TB by supporting projects including: TB
education and health-related HIV prevention, and TB treatment and support
programs. For over a year now, she has been working as Program Manager at Love
in Action Ethiopia (LIAE), a not-for-profit organization that aspires to
improve the quality of life in the rural and urban areas of Ethiopia. LIAE
does this by supporting the community members' efforts with minimum external
intervention, and by focusing on those who are most-at-risk, marginalized, or
underserved. As a Program Manager, Eligayehu has convinced and encouraged all
satellite office staff to incorporate TB elimination as a cross-cutting issue.
Because of her efforts, the staff at LIAE has included TB as one of the
project activities during the planning and mainstreaming of TB during
training, peer education and mass awareness provision. For her commitment to
raising community awareness and help in changing attitudes towards TB,
Eligayehu is recognized as a Global TB Champion.

Dr. Herman Weyenga, TB/HIV Technical Advisor, CDC Kenya

![image of DGHT TB Champion Grisel Rodríguez Cuns, Medical
Microbiologist](https://i.ibb.co/x11rHsb/10-Herman-Weyenga-Photo.jpg)Dr.
Weyenga is an expert in Tuberculosis TB prevention and control and has worked
with national and local stakeholders to advise on the latest approaches to
ending TB, particularly through Kenya's prison system and the roll-out of TB
preventive therapy (TPT). Through Dr. Weyenga's expert input in national
guidelines and implementation, Kenya scaled-up TPT from 10,000 to over 490,000
from 2014 to 2016. This number increased to 900,000 in December 2018. Dr.
Herman Weyenga's efforts demonstrate that "It's Time" to end TB by
strengthening education and awareness of TPT among health care providers in
Kenya's prison systems. Because of his efforts to spread the message that
"It's Time" to end TB through global TB prevention practices to educating
health workers in Kenya's prisons, Dr. Weyenga is recognized as a Global TB
Champion.

Miss Jyothi, Hub Agent at Tuberculosis (TB) Alert India

![image of DGHT TB Champion Grisel Rodríguez Cuns, Medical
Microbiologist](https://i.ibb.co/mX7y2j4/11-Miss-Jyothi-Photo.jpg)Miss Jyothi
is the hub agent for three corporate hospitals located in Hyderabad India,
working on the Joint Effort for Elimination of Tuberculosis (JEET) project.
She visits the hospitals every day and educates patients on the pros and cons
of sample collection for early diagnosis and management of TB. She is diligent
and courteous to all the patients she works with, and coordinates with the
treatment teams to improve diagnostic testing and the overall health of TB
patients. Her work in sample collection and dispatch for appropriate
investigation has enhanced the specificity and sensitivity of sample
collection for TB diagnosis in Hyderabad hospitals, ultimately improving the
results of diagnosis reports. Due to her hard work to reduce the prevalence
and incidence of TB in India, Miss Jyothi is recognized as a Global TB
Champion.

Let's Unite to End Tuberculosis (TB), Guam Department of Public Health's TB
Program

![image of DGHT TB Champion Grisel Rodríguez Cuns, Medical
Microbiologist](https://i.ibb.co/prYCfbw/12-Guam-Photo.jpg)Let's Unite to End
TB in Guam is a community engagement effort with private healthcare providers
to increase TB diagnosis and referral on the Island. Let's Unite to End TB in
Guam training increased collaboration between private healthcare providers and
TB program in the Health Department which led to an increase in TB diagnoses
and referrals. In the four months following the training, 49 suspect cases
were referred from the private providers of which 39 were confirmed as active
TB cases. Because of their commitment and efforts to unite on one front and
end TB in our lifetime, the members of Guam's TB team-- Chima D. Mbakwem,
Janna W. Manglona, Alice M. Cuenca, Juan Santiago, Ester D. Bilon, Anne Marie
G. Santos, Chee Kin Lam, Marsa Meter--are recognized as Global TB Champions.

## Resources

CDC's Division of Global HIV & TB offers these resources, which can be shared
across various networks in the lead-up to World TB Day and year-round.

### Multidrug Resistant TB Factsheetpdf icon

This brief overview describes CDC's response to the global threat of
multidrug-resistant tuberculosis

* * *

### TB Fact Sheetpdf icon

An overview of CDC's global TB efforts and return on investments in responding
to one of the world's greatest health threats

* * *

### Social Media Cards

Shareable social media graphics that highlight the burden of TB, global
progress to date, and CDC's leadership to help end the epidemic

Page last reviewed: March 24, 2020, 03:30 PM

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Who We Areplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About Usplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Global TB Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Global HIV Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * PEPFAR 15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Featuresplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Rwanda on track to achieve HIV epidemic control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Itâs Time to End TB: Changing the Course of the Global TB Epidemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Large national survey shows smaller HIV epidemic in Nigeria than once thought and highlights key gaps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Living with HIV and Dying of TB: CDC Accelerates Scale up of TB prevention for People Living with HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDCâs Dr. Tedd V. Ellerbrock Named 2017 Winner of Prestigious Samuel J. Heyman Award for Career Achievement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * New Results from Uganda and Lesotho Show Continued Progress against the HIV Epidemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * New Data from Swaziland Show Global Efforts are Helping to Control the HIV Epidemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The 22nd International AIDS Conference (AIDS 2018)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC Study on Drug Resistant TB Published in the Lancet Infectious Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC Experts Present Innovative Research at CROI in Seattle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC/Emory South African Study Provides Compelling New Evidence on Role of Transmission in Drug-Resistant TB Epidemics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Spotlight with the Director
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC Experts Attend Union World Conference on Lung Health in The Hague, The Netherlands
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC and USG Agencies Release Six-Month Progress Report on the National Plan to Combat Multidrug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDCâs Division of Global HIV & TB Experts in Action
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Eventsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * World TB Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * World AIDS Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Siyenza
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Success Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * New Centre of Excellence to Address the Hidden Epidemic of Tuberculosis Among Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Man Bringing Men into Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Hitting the Right Target, House by House
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Improved Filing Reduces Patient Wait Time
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Guiding Patients Through a Difficult Process
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Making Access to Treatment Quick and Easy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Improving client retention through SMS reminders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * One Countryâs Success and Mentorship in Fighting TB among those living with HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Costs of HIV misdiagnoses; the case for retesting for verification of HIV status
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * New Analytic Approaches Aid in Micro-targeting Health Services in Mozambique
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Index Testing in Uganda: Identifying HIV-Positive Patients, One Phone Call at a Time
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Innovative Mobile Health Initiatives Poised to Transform Tanzaniaâs Tuberculosis and HIV Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ugandaâs Community Private Pharmacy Program: Bringing HIV Treatment Closer to Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Peer Counselors: Creating Stronger Links to Care for People Newly Diagnosed with HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * PEPFAR15: CDC Global AIDS Pioneer Eugene McCray Reflects on PEPFARâs Early Days
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Protecting and Empowering Kenyaâs Next Generation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Power of Partnerships: Global Elimination of Mother-to-Child HIV Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Community Adherence Clubs: Breaking Down Barriers to Treatment in Namibia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Namulindwa Rose: 15 Years of PEPFAR Care and Still Patient 0001
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * For One Mother in Uganda, 15 Years of Lifeâand 10 Healthy ChildrenâThanks to PEPFAR and CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * World AIDS Day 2017: Stories from the Field
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * PEPFARâs 15-Year History Informs COP 2018 Planning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC Expands Access to HIV Treatment in Underserved and Rural Areas Through Project ECHO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fighting Cancer Among HIV-Positive Women
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * PHIA Stories from the Field
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * New PHIA Survey Data Show Critical Progress Towards Global HIV Targets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Hidden Epidemic: TB Among Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * TBâs Grip on the Mining Community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC, PEPFAR, and BD Partner in Labs for Life to Transform HIV and TB Healthcare in Africa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Drug-resistant TB: A Present Threat from an Ancient Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Strong Labs Save Lives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * A Lifetime Committed to Eliminating One of the Worldâs Deadliest Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Lessons Learned from Scaling up HIV Treatment in Mozambique
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Community Support Groups Deliver HIV Treatment in Mozambique
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Using Evidence to Achieve an AIDS-Free Generation in Kenya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Training 8,000 Healthcare Workers in Zimbabwe to Fight HIV/AIDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Early Infant Male Circumcision: A Giant Leap toward an HIV-Free Generation in Botswana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Rukia, an AIDS Orphan, Becomes a Business Owner in Tanzania
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Innovative Electronic Medical Record System Expands in Malawi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Partnerships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Issue Briefs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2017 Biobehavioral Survey Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Leadershipplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Hank Tomlinson
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Chuck Vitek
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Heather Pumphrey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Josef Amann
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * William Levine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jeff Hanson
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Laura Porter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Heather Alexander
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nalinee Sangrujee
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Christopher Parker
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Doing Business with Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Careersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DGHT Jobs Internal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DGHT Jobs External
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Where We Workplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Countriesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Angola
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Barbados
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Botswana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Brazil
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Cambodia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Cameroon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * China
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Cote dâIvoire
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Democratic Republic of Congo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Dominican Republic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * El Salvador
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ethiopia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Eswatini
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ghana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Guatemala
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Guyana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Haiti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Honduras
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * India
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jamaica
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Kazakhstan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Kenya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Kyrgyzstan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Laos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Lesotho
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Malawi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Mali
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Mozambique
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Namibia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nicaragua
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nigeria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Myanmar (Burma)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Panama
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Papua New Guinea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Rwanda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Senegal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sierra Leone
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * South Africa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * South Sudan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tajikistan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tanzania
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Thailand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Trinidad and Tobago
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Uganda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ukraine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Vietnam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zambia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zimbabwe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Regionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * West Africa Regionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Ghana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Mali
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Senegal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Sierra Leone
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Asia Regionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cambodia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * India
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Kazakhstan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Kyrgyzstan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Laos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Myanmar (Burma)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Papua New Guinea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Tajikistan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Thailand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Western Hemisphere Regionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Barbados
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Brazil
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * El Salvador
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Guatemala
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Guyana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Honduras
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Jamaica
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Nicaragua
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Panama
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Trinidad and Tobago
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDCâs Results

#### Get email updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Enter Email Address Submit Button What's this?

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM

