https://www.cdc.gov/foodsafety/rawmilk/raw-milk-questions-and-answers.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/foodsafety/rawmilk/raw-milk-questions-and-answers.html    
                Description: There are no health benefits from drinking raw milk that cannot be obtained from drinking pasteurized milk that is free of disease-causing bacteria.    
                Keywords: raw milk,  danger,  harmful,  listeria,  salmonella,  e.coli,  campylobacter,  hemolytic uremic syndrome,  food poisoning complications, Raw Milk (Unpasteurized Milk), Food Safety    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Food Safety

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate

# Raw Milk Questions and Answers

Minus

Related Pages

![Dairy products ](/foodsafety/images/rawmilk/iStock-544806144-dairy.jpg)

Raw milk is milk that has not been pasteurized to kill harmful bacteria. It
can come from any animal. Raw milk can carry dangerous germs, such as
_Brucella_, _Campylobacter_ , _Cryptosporidium_ , _E. coli_ , _Listeria_ , and
_Salmonella_ , which can pose serious health risks to you and your family.

**Read  the topics below to get answers to commonly asked questions about raw
milk.**

Open All Close All

The risks of raw milk

![ Raw Milk Infographic Cover](/foodsafety/images/rawmilk/raw-milk-
infographic-200px.jpg)

Download Cdc-pdf[PDF - 1 page]

##### **What are the risks associated with drinking raw milk?**

Raw milk is milk from any animal that has not been pasteurized to kill harmful
bacteria. Raw milk can carry harmful bacteria and other germs that can make
you very sick or kill you. While it is possible to get foodborne illnesses
from many different foods, raw milk is one of the riskiest of all.

Some people who chose raw milk thinking they would improve their health
instead found themselves (or their loved ones) sick in a hospital for several
weeks due to infections caused by germs in raw milk. Getting sick from raw
milk can mean many days of diarrhea, stomach cramping, and vomiting. Some
people who drank raw milk have developed severe or even life-threatening
diseases, including Guillain-Barre syndrome, which can cause paralysis, and
hemolytic uremic syndrome, which can result in kidney failure, stroke, and
even death.

Here are some things you should know:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Illness can occur from the same brand and source of raw milk that people had been drinking for a long time without becoming ill.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * A wide variety of germs that are sometimes found in raw milk can make people sick. These germs include _Brucella_, _Campylobacter_, _Cryptosporidium_ , _E. coli_ ,  _Listeria_ , and _Salmonella._
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Each ill person's symptoms can differ depending on the type of germ, the amount of contamination, and the person's immune defenses.

##### **Who is at greatest risk of getting sick from drinking raw milk?**

The risk of getting sick from drinking contaminated raw milk is greater for
infants and young children, older adults, pregnant women, and people with
weakened immune systems, such as people with cancer, an organ transplant, or
HIV, than it is for healthy older children and adults. But healthy people of
any age can get very sick or even die if they drink raw milk contaminated with
harmful germs.

##### **Can drinking raw milk hurt me or my family?**

Yes. Raw milk can cause serious illnesses. Raw milk and raw milk products,
including soft cheese, ice cream, and yogurt, can be contaminated with harmful
bacteria and other germs that can cause serious illness, hospitalization, or
death. These harmful germs include _Brucella_, _Campylobacter_,
_Cryptosporidium_ , _E. coli_, _Listeria_, and _Salmonella_.

From 1993 through 2012, 127 outbreaks reported to CDC were linked to raw milk.
These outbreaks included 1,909 illnesses and 144 hospitalizations. Most of the
outbreaks were caused by _Campylobacter_ , Shiga toxin-producing _E. coli_, or
_Salmonella_. A large number of raw milk outbreaks involve children. At least
one child younger than 5 was involved in 59% of the raw milk outbreaks
reported to CDC from 2007 through 2012. Children aged 1 to 4 years accounted
for 38% of _Salmonella_ illnesses in these outbreaks and 28% of illnesses
caused by Shiga toxin-producing _E. coli_ , which can cause kidney failure and
death.

Reported outbreaks represent the tip of the iceberg. Most illnesses are not a
part of recognized outbreak, and for every outbreak and every illness
reported, many others occur.

Pasteurization

![carton of milk](/foodsafety/images/rawmilk/iStock-497861284-milk-carton.jpg)

##### **What is pasteurization, and what is pasteurized milk?**

Pasteurization is the process of heating milk to a high enough temperature for
a long enough time to kill illness-causing germs. Pasteurized milk is milk
that has gone through this process.

##### **What is the history of pasteurization in the United States?**

Pasteurization was invented during a time when millions of people became sick
and died of tuberculosis, scarlet fever, typhoid fever, and other diseases
that were transmitted through raw milk. Pasteurization has prevented millions
of people from becoming ill.

Routine pasteurization of milk began in the United States in the 1920s and
became widespread by 1950 as a means to reduce contamination and reduce human
illnesses. It led to dramatic reductions in the number of people getting sick.
Most public health professionals and health care providers consider
pasteurization one of public health's most effective food safety interventions
ever!

Many medical and scientific organizations recommend pasteurization for all
milk consumed by humans; these include CDC, the Food and Drug Administration,
the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Veterinary Medical
Association, the National Association of State Public Health Veterinarians,
and others.

##### **Does pasteurization change milk 's nutritional benefits?**

Most of the nutritional benefits of drinking milk are available from
pasteurized milk without the risk of disease that comes with drinking raw
milk.

##### **Is it true that raw milk has more enzymes and nutrients than
pasteurized milk?**

The heating process of pasteurization inactivates some enzymes in milk but
scientists do not believe these enzymes are important in human health. Some
nutrients are somewhat reduced in pasteurized milk, but the U.S. diet
generally has plenty of other sources of these nutrients. For example, vitamin
C is reduced by pasteurization, but raw milk is not a major source of vitamin
C for humans.

##### **Has pasteurized milk ever been linked to illnesses or outbreaks?**

Pasteurized milk products have occasionally caused illnesses and outbreaks.
Usually, this has happened because of germs introduced in the dairy after the
pasteurization process. Pasteurized milk that is correctly handled in the
dairy, bottled, sealed, and refrigerated after pasteurization, and that is
properly handled by the consumer, is very unlikely to contain illness-causing
germs. Considering the large amount of pasteurized milk that people drink,
illness from it is very rare.

Milk production and contamination

#####  **How does milk get contaminated?**

![image of farmer standing near cows who are
eating](/foodsafety/images/rawmilk/contamination.jpg)

Milk contamination may occur in these ways:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Animal feces coming into direct contact with the milk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infection of the udder (mastitis)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cow diseases (for example, bovine tuberculosis)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Bacteria that live on the skin of animals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Environment (for example, feces, dirt, and processing equipment)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Insects, rodents, and other animal vectors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Unsanitary conditions in milk processing plant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cross-contamination from dairy workers, such as contact with dirty clothing or boots

Pasteurization is the only way to kill many of the bacteria in milk that can
make people very sick.

##### **Does milk have a "built-in" safety mechanism that prevents bacterial
contamination?**

No. Disease-causing germs can be eliminated in milk only by pasteurization or
by adding chemicals to the milk. Pasteurization is the best method of getting
rid of disease-causing organisms in milk and the only method routinely used in
the United States.

##### **My farmer performs laboratory tests for bacteria in raw milk, so isn
't it safe?**

No. Negative tests do not guarantee that raw milk is safe to drink. Milk that
is safe one day may not be safe the next day. Also, tests do not always detect
low levels of contamination. People have become very sick from drinking raw
milk that came from farms that regularly tested their milk for bacteria and
whose owners were sure that their milk was safe.

##### **My farmer uses grass-fed cows and goats to produce raw milk, so isn 't
it safe?**

Outbreaks of illness related to raw milk have been traced back to both grass-
fed and grain-fed animals.

##### **My farmer 's raw milk is organic, so isn't it safe?**

Raw milk, regardless of whether it is organic, can contain harmful germs.
Pasteurized organic milk is available in many places, including supermarkets,
farmers' markets, and dairies.

##### **I 've heard that many organic and raw milk producers are creating
sanitary and humane conditions for raising animals and producing "safe" raw
milk and raw milk products (like ice cream and cheese). Does this help reduce
milk contamination?**

Following good hygienic practices during milking can reduce the chance of milk
contamination but not completely eliminate it.

That's because illness-causing germs thrive in the environment of dairy farms,
even if the farm or barns are kept clean and the farmers are careful when
milking. Farmers cannot guarantee that their raw milk and the products made
from it are free of harmful germs - even if tests indicate the raw milk does
not contain harmful germs.

#####

![cows in grassy field](/foodsafety/images/rawmilk/cow-grass.jpg)

##### **Can I still get a disease from raw milk and raw milk products if the
animals are healthy, clean, and grass-fed or if the dairy is especially
careful and clean when collecting the milk?**

Yes. Even healthy animals may carry germs that can contaminate milk. Small
numbers of bacteria can multiply and grow in milk from the time it is
collected until the time a person drinks it. If the milk is not pasteurized to
kill germs, people who drink it can get sick. Methods for collecting milk have
improved over the years but cannot be relied on to be sure milk is safe to
drink. Raw milk from "certified," "organic," or "local" dairies is not
guaranteed to be safe. Only pasteurization can make milk safe to drink. You
can find pasteurized organic milk and products made from it at many local,
small farms.

Unproven health benefits of raw milk

#####  **Aren 't raw or natural foods better than processed foods?**

Many people believe that foods with little to no processing are better for
their health. Many people also believe that small, local farms are better
sources of healthy food. However, some types of processing are needed to
protect health. One type of processing happens when we cook raw meat, poultry,
and fish to make them safe to eat. Similarly, when milk is pasteurized, it is
made safe by heating it just long enough to kill disease-causing germs. Most
nutrients remain in milk after it is pasteurized.

##### **Is raw milk a good source of beneficial bacteria?**

Raw milk contains bacteria, and some of them can be harmful. So, if you're
thinking about consuming raw milk because you believe it is a good source of
beneficial bacteria, you need to know that you may instead get sick from the
harmful bacteria. If you think that certain types of bacteria may be
beneficial to your health, consider getting them from foods that don't involve
such a high risk. For example, pasteurized fermented foods, such as yogurt and
kefir, contain bacteria that are safe to eat.

##### **I know people who have been drinking raw milk for years, and they
never got sick. Why is that?**

The presence of germs in raw milk is unpredictable. People can drink it for a
long time without getting sick, and then get sick if their milk is
contaminated.

Raw milk laws and outbreaks linked to raw milk

![legal status of the sale of raw milk and outbreaks linked to raw milk, by
state, 2007-2012](/foodsafety/images/rawmilk/raw-milk-map-flex-2012-450px.jpg)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cdc-pdf[PDF - 1 page] [text version]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Find out the current legal status of the sale of raw milk in D.C. and all 50 statesExternal >

##### **Is it legal to buy or sell raw milk?**

In some states it is legal to buy or sell raw milk. Because of the chance for
serious illness, federal law prohibits dairies from distributing raw milk
across state lines in final package form (packaged so that it can be
consumed). This means that raw milk can only be distributed across state lines
if it is going to be pasteurized or used to make aged (more than 60 days)
cheese before being sold to consumers. Each state makes its own laws about
selling raw milk within the borders of the state. In about half of states,
sale of raw milk directly to consumers is illegal. In the remaining states,
raw milk may be sold directly to consumers.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Learn about outbreaks linked to raw milk where its sale is legal >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Learn about an outbreak linked to illegal interstate sale of milk >

##### **How many outbreaks are related to raw milk?**

![NORS dashboard](/fdoss/images/NORS1-05-375px.png)

Search NORS Dashboard >

From 1993 through 2012, 127 outbreaks reported to CDC were linked to raw milk.
These outbreaks included 1,909 illnesses and 144 hospitalizations. Most of the
outbreaks were caused by _Campylobacter_ , Shiga toxin-producing _E. coli_, or
_Salmonella_.

CDC collects data on foodborne disease outbreaks voluntarily reported by
state, local, or territorial health departments.

Reported outbreaks represent the tip of the iceberg. Most illnesses are not a
part of recognized outbreak, and for every outbreak and every illness
reported, many others occur.

A large number of raw milk outbreaks involve children. At least one child
younger than 5 was involved in 59% of the raw milk outbreaks reported to CDC
from 2007 through 2012. Children aged 1 to 4 years accounted for 38% of
_Salmonella_ illnesses in these outbreaks and 28% of illnesses caused by Shiga
toxin-producing _E. coli_ , which can cause kidney failure and death.

##### **Do more outbreaks related to raw milk occur in states where it is
legal to sell?**

Yes. States that allow the legal sale of raw milk for human consumption have
more raw milk-related outbreaks of illness than states that do not allow raw
milk to be sold legally.

More information:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Increase in Outbreaks Associated with Nonpasteurized Milk, United States, 2007-2012 >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nonpasteurized Dairy Products, Disease Outbreaks, and State Laws--United States, 1993-2006 >

##### **How can I get more information about foodborne disease outbreaks
linked to raw milk?**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Learn about an outbreak linked to illegal interstate sale of milk >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * See a list of current and past multistate foodborne outbreak investigations led by CDC >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Read the annual summary of foodborne outbreak investigations reported to CDC >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Search CDC's NORS Dashboard for information on foodborne disease outbreaks reported to CDC since 1998 >

Top of Page

5 Raw Milk Myths Busted!

Learn about the real risks involved with raw milk.

Get the facts >

Real Stories of the Dangers of Raw Milk

Find out how drinking raw milk affected three moms and their families.

Watch the videos >

Page last reviewed: June 15, 2017

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Foodborne,
Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases (DFWED)

Â

home Food Safety Home Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How to Prevent Food Poisoningplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Basic Food Safetyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Key Facts About Food Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Four Steps to Food Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 10 Dangerous Food Safety Mistakes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Food Safety in the Kitchen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Meal Kit and Food Delivery Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fruit and Vegetable Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Cleaning Your Refrigerator Because of a Food Recall
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Food Safety and Eating Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Food Safety for Special Events, Seasons, and Holidaysplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Food Safety Tips for Holiday Turkey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Food Safety Tips for Holidays
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Preparing Chitlins Safely
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Say No to Raw Dough
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Food Safety for Buffets and Parties
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Game Day Food Safety Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * How to Grill Safely
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Food Poisoning Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * People With a Higher Risk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Foods That Can Cause Food Poisoningplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Handling and Preparing Common Foods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Chicken and Food Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Raw Milk Dangersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Trying to Decide About Raw Milk?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Raw Milk Myths
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Raw Milk Questions and Answers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Real Stories of the Dangers of Raw Milk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Outbreak Studies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Resources & Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Foodborne Germs and Illnessesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * A-Z Index
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Keep Food Safe After a Disaster or Emergencyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Food Safety for Power Outages
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Foodborne Outbreaks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Educational Materialsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Patient Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * _Salmonella_ Illness Linked to Chicken: AJâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Baby Chicks and _Salmonella_ : Tylerâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sick Kids, Dairy Calves, and Antibiotics That Donât Work: Dr. Megin Nicholsâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Social Media Graphics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Food Safety Features
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Food Safety Education Monthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Social Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Food Safety Newsletters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthcare Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Departments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDCâs Role in Food Safetyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Food Safety Modernization Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Challenges in Food Safetyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Antibiotic Resistance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Culture-Independent Diagnostic Tests
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * How Food Gets Contaminated

Get Email Updates

To receive regular CDC updates on food safety, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FoodSafety.govexternal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Estimates of Foodborne Illness in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Foodborne Illness Surveillance Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Environmental Health Services

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM

