https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/mm6338a3.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/mm6338a3.htm    
                Description: None    
                Keywords: None    
                            ï»¿

Skip directly to search Skip directly to A to Z list Skip directly to site
content

CDC Home

![CDC. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC 24/7: Saving Lives.
Protecting People.](/TemplatePackage/images/cdcHeaderLogo.gif)CDC 24/7: Saving
Lives. Protecting People.™

Search The CDC

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

## Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report ( _MMWR_ )

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _MMWR_



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          *  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          *  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          *  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          *  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          *  

![Share](/TemplatePackage/images/social/sm-plus.gif)ShareCompartir

# Prevalence of _Chlamydia trachomatis_ Genital Infection Among Persons Aged
14-39 Years -- United States, 2007-2012

Elizabeth Torrone, PhD1, John Papp, PhD1, Hillard Weinstock, MD1 (Author
affiliations at end of text)

Infection with the bacterium _, Chlamydia trachomatis_ (often termed
"chlamydia") is the most frequently reported sexually transmitted infection in
the United States. The urethra is the most common site of infection in males,
and the urethra and cervix are most commonly infected in females. Ascending
infection in females can cause pelvic inflammatory disease, which can lead to
infertility and ectopic pregnancy ( _1_ ). Genital chlamydial infections are
usually asymptomatic, and screening is necessary to identify most infections.
Currently, chlamydia screening for sexually active women aged <25 years is
recommended by the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (grade B
recommendation) ( _2_ ). Chlamydia is nationally notifiable ( _3_ ); however,
if females do not access care or clinicians do not screen, many infections go
undiagnosed, unreported, and untreated. CDC monitors population prevalence of
genital chlamydial infection through the National Health and Nutrition
Examination Survey (NHANES), which tests a sample of the U.S. population aged
14-39 years for genital _C. trachomatis_ and found that the overall chlamydia
burden in the United States decreased during 1999-2008 ( _7_ ). Using data
from the most recent cycles of NHANES (2007-2012), CDC estimated chlamydia
prevalence among persons aged 14-39 years overall and by demographic
characteristics and sexual behaviors. The prevalence of chlamydia among
persons aged 14-39 years was 1.7% (95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.4%-2.0%).
Chlamydia prevalence varied by age and race/ethnicity, with prevalence highest
among non-Hispanic blacks (5.2%). Among sexually active females aged 14-24
years, the population targeted for routine screening, chlamydia prevalence was
4.7% overall and 13.5% among non-Hispanic black females. As chlamydia is
common and infections are usually asymptomatic, health care providers should
routinely screen sexually active young women aged <25 years for chlamydial
infection, provide prompt treatment for infected persons, and ensure that
infected patients' sex partners receive timely treatment to prevent
reinfection.

NHANES is a cross-sectional, complex, multistage survey designed to be
nationally representative of the noninstitutionalized U.S. civilian
population.* Participants are interviewed in person and are medically
examined. During the examination, answers to sensitive questions on sexual and
other behaviors are also collected using an audio and computer self-interview.
During NHANES 2007-2012, a total of 8,827 persons aged 14-39 years were
interviewed, and 8,563 were examined, for an overall response rate of 75%. Of
those examined, 8,330 (97%) provided a urine sample that was tested for _C.
trachomatis_ using the Hologic/Gen-Probe Aptima nucleic acid amplification
test. Nucleic acid testing of urine specimens detects urethral infection in
males and both urethral and cervical infection in females. Prevalence of
chlamydial infection and CIs were estimated by demographic and health care-
related characteristics. Participants who responded "yes" to the question,
"Have you ever had vaginal, anal, or oral sex" during the audio and computer
self-interview were considered to be sexually active; chlamydia prevalence was
estimated among this subset of respondents. Prevalence among sexually active
females was estimated by age and race/ethnicity and by current use of oral
contraceptives or a long-acting injectable contraceptive (i.e., DepoProvera).
Prevalence ratios (PRs) and CIs were calculated to assess relative differences
in prevalence. Difference in overall prevalence by NHANES cycle was assessed
by the Rao-Scott chi-square test. All estimates were weighted to be nationally
representative of the U.S. population, accounting for unequal probabilities of
selection and nonresponse. Population counts were estimated by multiplying
weighted prevalence estimates by the average of the Current Population Survey
estimates during the three NHANES cycles (2007-2008, 2009-2010, and
2011-2012).

Among participants aged 14-39 years, overall chlamydia prevalence was 1.7% (CI
= 1.4%-2.0%) suggesting that there are approximately 1.8 million prevalent
infections nationally (CI = 1.4-2.1 million) (Table). Genital chlamydial
infection was associated with age, race/ethnicity, income, marital status,
number of sexual partners, and education. Prevalence of chlamydia among non-
Hispanic blacks was approximately seven times the prevalence among non-
Hispanic whites (PR = 6.7; CI = 4.3-10.6), and prevalence among Mexican-
Americans was approximately three times the prevalence among non-Hispanic
whites (PR = 2.9; CI = 1.7-5.1). Prevalence among sexually active participants
who reported one sex partner in the last year was 1.4% (CI = 1.1%-1.7%), less
than the 3.2% (CI = 2.2%-4.2%) prevalence among participants who reported two
or more partners (PR = 0.4; CI = 0.3-0.7). Among sexually active female
participants, prevalence was similar among women who were current users of
oral contraceptives or DepoProva and women who were not using those birth
control methods (PR = 0.8; CI = 0.4-1.6).

Among sexually active females, prevalence of chlamydia decreased with age
(p<0.05) (Figure). Prevalence among sexually active females aged 14-24 years
(the population targeted for chlamydia screening) was 4.7% overall (CI =
3.2%-6.1%) and varied by race/ethnicity (p<0.05) (Figure). Among sexually
active females aged 14-24 years, approximately one in seven non-Hispanic black
females was infected with chlamydia (prevalence = 13.5%; CI = 9.2%-17.7%); one
in 22 Mexican-American females was infected (prevalence = 4.5%; CI =
2.6%-6.4%), and one in 55 non-Hispanic white females was infected (prevalence
= 1.8%; CI = 0.3%-3.2%).

Overall prevalence of chlamydial infection among persons aged 14-39 years was
similar over the three NHANES cycles combined for this analysis: 2007-2008:
1.6% (CI = 1.1%-2.2%); 2009-2010: 1.7% (CI = 1.2%-2.1%); and 2011-2012: 1.9%
(CI = 1.5%-2.2%).

### Discussion

Chlamydia is the most commonly reported nationally notifiable disease, with
over 1.4 million infections reported in 2012 ( _3_ ). However, case reports
likely underestimate the burden of disease because most infections are
asymptomatic and are neither diagnosed nor reported. At the same time, because
untreated chlamydia can persist, case report data are strongly influenced by
screening activity, increasing with extensive screening and decreasing with
limited screening. For these reasons, case report data are not reliable
indicators of either population incidence or population prevalence. NHANES
provides the best national estimate of chlamydia prevalence. The 2007-2012
NHANES indicate that an estimated 1.8 million persons aged 14-39 years in the
United States have a genital chlamydial infection. Prevalence was highest
among adolescents and young adults aged <25 years. Young persons might be at
increased risk for infection because of biologic risk factors (e.g., cervical
ectopy might predispose to infection and is more common in younger women),
contextual risk factors (e.g., some young persons might lack power in
relationships to insist upon condom use), or behavioral risk factors (e.g.,
younger persons might be more likely to have sex with new partners or sex with
multiple partners) ( _1_ ).

Although infection was more common among participants with multiple sex
partners in the last year, prevalence among sexually active participants
reporting only one partner in the last year was 1.4%, suggesting that not
having had recent multiple partners does not eliminate risk for infection.
Among sexually active females, use of oral contraceptives or DepoProvera was
not associated with chlamydial infection, although use of these methods might
be confounded by condom use because women using hormonal contraceptives might
be less likely to use barrier contraceptives. Although previous studies have
shown that use of hormonal contraceptives is associated with chlamydial
infection ( _4_ ), these studies were not population-based, and the hormonal
contraceptives used were older formulations. Longitudinal studies using
current formulations of contraceptives might be useful to better determine how
contraceptive choice, including hormonal contraceptives and condom use,
affects the acquisition of chlamydial infection.

Evidence suggests that chlamydia screening is cost-effective at prevalence >3%
( _5_ ). Prevalence among sexually active young women aged 14-24 years was
4.7% overall, suggesting that routine screening of young women continues to be
a cost-effective preventive intervention. However, in the United States,
chlamydia screening rates are suboptimal, with fewer than half of sexually
active young women screened annually. ( _6_ )

Similar to analyses of earlier NHANES data ( _7,8_ ), this analysis found
notable racial/ethnic disparities. Prevalence among sexually active, non-
Hispanic black females aged 14-24 years was 13.5%, seven times the prevalence
among white females (1.8%). Although the reasons for these racial/ethnic
disparities are unknown, they might reflect different exposures to chlamydia
because of differences in prevalence of chlamydia in sexual networks, as well
as decreased access to routine preventive care that includes chlamydia
screening and timely partner treatment. Effectively addressing disparities
might require targeted interventions. In addition to requiring federally
funded programs to focus efforts on populations with high burden of sexually
transmitted infections, CDC currently funds the Community-Based Approaches to
Reducing Sexually Transmitted Diseases (CARS) initiative to reduce disparities
through implementation of interdisciplinary interventions, including
facilitating enhanced community-clinical linkages to promote prevention and
control of sexually transmitted infections.

The findings in this report are subject to at least four limitations. First,
prevalence estimates do not include chlamydial infections at nongenital sites
that can be infected through sexual contact, such as the rectum and
oropharynx. Thus, prevalence estimates presented in this report are likely to
underestimate the actual burden of sexually transmitted infection. Because
rectal chlamydial infections might facilitate transmission of human
immunodeficiency virus, further understanding of the prevalence of rectal
infection is needed. Second, small sample sizes resulted in estimates with
wide CIs. Although no temporal trend in prevalence was detected over the three
survey cycles, the analysis likely was underpowered to detect
epidemiologically significant changes in prevalence over time. Also because of
small sample size, CDC was not able to provide estimates stratified by the sex
of respondents or that of sex partners, or by both sex and age, except for
estimates among sexually active young women, among whom prevalence is high.
Third, some participants might have falsely reported being or not being
sexually active. Finally, although the diagnostic tests for _C. trachomatis_
used in NHANES are >95% sensitive and >99% specific, some results might be
falsely positive or negative.

Currently, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommends annual screening
of all sexually active females aged <25 years and screening of older women at
increased risk (e.g., women who have new or multiple sex partners) ( _2_ ).
Additionally, CDC recommends that men who report rectal sex should be screened
at least annually and that targeted urogenital screening of sexually active
young men in high-prevalence clinics might be considered ( _9_ ). Treatment
for chlamydia is simple and effective ( _9_ ). However, reinfection is common,
in part because of reinfection from an untreated partner ( _10_ ). Clinicians
should routinely screen young women and men who have sex with men for
chlamydia and ensure that infected patients and their sex partners receive
timely treatment to prevent reinfection ( _9_ ). Strategies to increase
screening in clinical facilities might include patient and clinician education
and structural interventions at the health care facility, such as adding
prompts to the electronic medical record ( _6_ ). Timely treatment of sex
partners might be facilitated by use of patient-delivered partner therapy,
recommended by CDC for sexually transmitted chlamydial infection since 2006 (
_9_ ).

1Division of STD Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis,
STD, and TB Prevention, CDC (Corresponding author: Elizabeth Torrone,
etorrone@cdc.gov, 404-639-8948)

### References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1. Stamm WE. _Chlamydia trachomatis_ infections in the adult. In: Holmes KK, Sparling PF, Stamm WE, et al (eds). Sexually transmitted diseases. 4th edition. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill; 2008:595-606.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2. LeFevre ML. Screening for chlamydia and gonorrhea: U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. Ann Intern Med 2014; September 23 [Epub ahead of print].
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3. CDC. Sexually transmitted disease surveillance 2012. Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2013. Available at http://www.cdc.gov/std/stats12/default.htm.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4. Mohllajee AP, Curtis KM, Martins SL, Peterson HB. Hormonal contraceptive use and risk of sexually transmitted infections: a systematic review. Contraception 2006;73:154-65.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5. Marrazzo JM, Celum CL, Hillis SD, Fine D, DeLisle S, Handsfield HH. Performance and cost-effectiveness of selective screening criteria for _Chlamydia trachomatis_ infection in women. Implications for a national Chlamydia control strategy. Sex Transm Dis 1997;24:131-41.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6. Hoover KW, Leichliter JS, Torrone EA, Loosier PS, Gift TL, Tao G. Chlamydia screening among females aged 15-21 years--multiple data sources, United States, 1999-2010\. MMWR 2014;63:80-8.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7. Datta SD, Sternberg M, Johnson RE, et al. Gonorrhea and chlamydia in the United States among persons 14 to 39 years of age, 1999 to 2002. Ann Intern Med 2007;147:89-96.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8. Datta SD, Torrone E, Kruszon-Moran, et al. _Chlamydia trachomatis_ trends in the United States among persons 14 to 39 years of age, 1999-2008\. Sex Transm Dis 2012;39:92-6.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9. CDC. Sexually transmitted diseases treatment guidelines, 2010. MMWR 2010;59(No. RR-12).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10. Batteiger BE, Tu W, Ofner S, et al. Repeated _Chlamydia trachomatis_ genital infections in adolescent women. J Infect Dis 2010;201:42-51.
  

* Additional information available at http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhanes.htm.

  

What is already known on this topic:

Chlamydia ( _Chlamydia trachomatis_ infection) is the most commonly reported
notifiable disease in the United States, but case reports likely underestimate
burden of disease because infections are usually asymptomatic and go
undetected. Data from the 1999-2008 National Health and Nutrition Examination
Surveys (NHANES) showed that chlamydia prevalence varies by age, sex, and
race/ethnicity. Annual screening of sexually active women aged <25 years is
recommended by the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force.

What is added by this report:

During NHANES 2007-2012, chlamydia prevalence was 1.7% among persons aged
14-39 years in the United States. Among sexually active females aged 14-24
years, chlamydia prevalence was 4.7% overall and 13.5% among non-Hispanic
blacks.

What are the implications for public health practice:

High chlamydia prevalence among sexually active young females in the United
States supports screening of all sexually active young females annually so
that infected persons can be diagnosed and they and their sex partners can be
treated promptly.

  

**TABLE. Prevalence of genital** ** _Chlamydia trachomatis_** *** infection
among persons aged 14 -39 years, by selected characteristics -- National
Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, United States, 2007-2012**  
  
---  
  
**Characteristic**

|

**Sample size**

|

**Prevalence ( %)**

|

**(95 % CI)**

|

**Prevalence ratio**

|

**(95 % CI)**  
  
**Total**

|

**8,330**

|

**1.7**

|

**(1.4-2.0)**

|

** **

|

** **  
  
**Sex**  
  
Male

|

4,181

|

1.4

|

(1.1-1.8)

|

0.7

|

(0.5-1.1)  
  
Female

|

4,149

|

2.0

|

(1.5-2.5)

|

1.0

|

  
  
**Age group (yrs)**  
  
14-19

|

2,724

|

2.4

|

(1.7-3.1)

|

1.0

|

  
  
20-24

|

1,456

|

2.9

|

(2.1-3.6)

|

1.2

|

(0.8-1.7)  
  
25-39

|

4,150

|

1.1

|

(0.7-1.4)

|

0.4

|

(0.3-0.8)  
  
**Race/Ethnicity** †  
  
Mexican-American

|

1,640

|

2.3

|

(1.4-3.1)

|

2.9

|

(1.7-5.1)  
  
Black, non-Hispanic

|

1,887

|

5.2

|

(4.0-6.4)

|

6.7

|

(4.3-10.6)  
  
White, non-Hispanic

|

3,019

|

0.8

|

(0.5-1.1)

|

1.0

|

  
  
**Poverty-to-income ratio** §  
  
<100%

|

1,490

|

2.3

|

(1.5-3.0)

|

1.5

|

(1.1-2.0)  
  
â¥100%

|

3,615

|

1.6

|

(1.2-2.0)

|

1.0

|

  
  
**Current health insurance** ¶  
  
Covered

|

5,753

|

1.6

|

(1.3-1.9)

|

0.8

|

(0.6-1.1)  
  
Not covered

|

2,553

|

2.0

|

(1.5-2.5)

|

1.0

|

  
  
**Education****  
  
â¤High school/GED

|

3,092

|

2.7

|

(2.1-3.4)

|

2.4

|

(1.6-3.6)  
  
>High school/GED

|

3,371

|

1.1

|

(0.8-1.5)

|

1.0

|

  
  
**Marital status****  
  
Never married

|

2,131

|

2.3

|

(1.7-3.0)

|

2.8

|

(1.8-4.6)  
  
Divorced/Widowed/Separated

|

429

|

3.0

|

(0.9-5.2)

|

3.7

|

(1.6-8.8)  
  
Married/Living with Partner

|

3,043

|

0.8

|

(0.5-1.2)

|

1.0

|

  
  
**Currently using oral contraceptives/DepoProvera** ††§§  
  
Yes

|

553

|

1.9

|

(0.7-3.1)

|

0.8

|

(0.4-1.6)  
  
No

|

2,331

|

2.3

|

(1.7-3.0)

|

1.0

|

  
  
**No. of sex partners in last year** §§  
  
0

|

402

|

1.8

|

(0.6-3.0)

|

0.6

|

(0.3-1.1)  
  
1

|

3,727

|

1.4

|

(1.1-1.7)

|

0.4

|

(0.3-0.7)  
  
â¥2

|

1,686

|

3.2

|

(2.2-4.2)

|

1.0

|  
  
**Age at first sex** §§  
  
<14 yrs

|

779

|

2.6

|

(1.5-3.8)

|

1.4

|

(0.9-2.4)  
  
â¥14 yrs

|

5,062

|

1.8

|

(1.5-2.2)

|

1.0

|

  
  
**Past STD diagnosis** §§¶¶  
  
Yes

|

579

|

1.9

|

(0.8-3.0)

|

0.8

|

(0.4-1.7)  
  
No

|

1,564

|

2.3

|

(1.4-3.3)

|

1.0

|

  
  
**Abbreviations:** CI = confidence interval; GED = General Education
Development certification; STD = sexually transmitted disease.

* Prevalence estimates based urine specimen tested using the Hologic/Gen-Probe Aptima assay.

† Data for persons of other racial/ethnic groups, including other race,
Hispanic (n = 925) and persons of multiple race/ethnicity (n = 859), are not
presented but are included in overall analyses.

§ Ratio of family income to poverty level as defined by the U.S. Census
Bureau.

¶ Based on response to the question, "Are you covered by health insurance or
some other health care plan?"

** Among persons aged â¥18 years.

†† Among females.

§§ Among persons who answered "yes" to the question, "Have you ever had
vaginal, anal, or oral sex?" (n = 5,848).

¶¶ Participants who have been told by a doctor or other health care
professional in the last 12 months that they had chlamydia or gonorrhea or
have ever been told they have herpes or genital warts.  
  
  

**FIGURE. Prevalence of genital** ** _Chlamydia trachomatis_** *** among
sexually active** † **females aged 14 -39 years, by age group and
race/ethnicity -- National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, United
States, 2007-2012**

![The figure is a bar chart showing the prevalence of genital Chlamydia
trachomatis among sexually active females aged 14-39 years, by age group and
race/ethnicity, in the United States during 2007-2012. All differences by age
group and by race/ethnicity were statistically significant
\(p<0.05\).](figures\\m6338a3f.gif)

* Prevalence estimates based urine specimen tested using the Hologic/Gen-Probe Aptima assay.

† Among females who answered "yes" to the question, "Have you ever had
vaginal, anal, or oral sex?" (n = 2,887).

§ 95% confidence interval.

¶ Data for persons of other racial/ethnic groups, including other, Hispanic (n
= 492) and persons of multiple race/ethnicity (n = 422) are not presented but
are included in overall estimate.

** Relative standard error >40% but <50% (n = 7).

†† Differences are statistically significant at p<0.05.

**Alternate Text:** The figure above is a bar chart showing the prevalence of
genital _Chlamydia trachomatis_ among sexually active females aged 14-39
years, by age group and race/ethnicity, in the United States during 2007-2012.
All differences by age group and by race/ethnicity were statistically
significant (p<0.05).

  
  

Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does
not imply endorsement by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.  
  
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to
_MMWR_ readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these
organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services. CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these
sites. URL addresses listed in _MMWR_ were current as of the date of
publication.

  

All _MMWR_ HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from typeset
documents. This conversion might result in character translation or format
errors in the HTML version. Users are referred to the electronic PDF version
(http://www.cdc.gov/mmwr) and/or the original _MMWR_ paper copy for printable
versions of official text, figures, and tables. An original paper copy of this
issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government
Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.  
  
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to
mmwrq@cdc.gov.



### _MMWR_ Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Weekly Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Past Volumes (1982-2014)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Recommendations and Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Past Volumes (1990-2014)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Surveillance Summaries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Past Volumes (1983-2014)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Supplements
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Notifiable Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About _MMWR_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Instructions for Authors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Serial Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Weekly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Continuing Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Continuing Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Weekly Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Serial Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State Health Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _MMWR_ Editorial Board
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _MMWR_ Staff



### File Formats Help:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ![Adobe PDF file](/TemplatePackage/images/icon_pdf.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ![Microsoft Word file](/TemplatePackage/images/icon_word.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ![Microsoft Excel file](/TemplatePackage/images/icon_excel.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ![Microsoft PowerPoint file](/TemplatePackage/images/icon_ppt.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ![Audio/Video file](/TemplatePackage/images/icon_wmv.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ![Zip Archive file](/TemplatePackage/images/icon_zip.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ![RealPlayer file](/TemplatePackage/images/icon_real.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ![Apple Quicktime file](/TemplatePackage/images/icon_qt.gif)

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?
![double arrows.](/TemplatePackage/images/btn_dblArrows.gif)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Print
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Subscribe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Download

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Page last reviewed: September 26, 2014
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Page last updated: September 26, 2014
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * A-Z Index
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Using this Site
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Link to Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Contact CDC

![USA.gov: The U.S. Government's Official Web
Portal](/TemplatePackage/images/logo_usagov.gif)![Department of Health and
Human Services](/TemplatePackage/images/logo_dhhs.gif)

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention   1600 Clifton Road Atlanta, GA
30329-4027, USA  
800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY: (888) 232-6348 - Contact CDC-INFO

A-Z Index

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1. A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2. B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3. C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4. D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5. E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6. F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7. G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8. H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9. I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10. J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11. K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12. L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          13. M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          14. N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          15. O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          16. P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          17. Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          18. R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          19. S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          20. T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          21. U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          22. V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          23. W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          24. X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          25. Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          26. Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          27. #

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)



  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM

