https://www.cdc.gov/about/default.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/about/default.htm    
                Description: Learn more about CDC    
                Keywords: about CDC,  mission,  leadership,  public health,  24-7,  health protection., CDC Organization    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

About CDC 24-7

Section Navigation

CDC Home

            * Facebook
            * Twitter
            * LinkedIn
            * Email
            * Syndicate

# About CDC 24-7

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

![Illustration of a measles virus](/about/images/homepage/carousel/measles-
virus.jpg)

Public Health Grand Rounds: Measles

Maintaining Disease Elimination and Enhancing Vaccine Confidence.

![Ending HIV Transmission](/about/images/homepage/carousel/vital-signs-
hiv.jpg)

Vital Signs

Ending HIV Transmission: Test, treat, and prevent

![CDC's Strategic Framework and
Priorities](/about/images/homepage/carousel/strategic-priorities.jpg)

CDC's Strategic Framework and Priorities

Learn more about our "Bold Promise to the Nation"

About CDC 24-7

            * Leadership
            * Organization
            * Mission and Vision
            * CDC Speakers
            * Funding & Grants
            * Vital Signs
            * Public Health Grand Rounds

Fact of the Week

![Man with fever taking temperature ](/about/images/facts/2020/symptoms-
coronavirus-532x354px.jpg)

Watch for symptoms of coronavirus. Reported illnesses have ranged from mild
symptoms to severe illness and death for confirmed coronavirus disease 2019
(COVID-19) cases. Learn more about symptoms of coronavirus and what to do if
you think you may be infected.

More

CDC Museum

![children listening to a tour guide](/about/images/homepage/museum-
update-2-26-532px.jpg)

The David J. Sencer CDC Museum, a Smithsonian Affiliate, uses award-winning
exhibits and innovative programing to educate visitors about the value of
public health, and presents the rich heritage and vast accomplishments of CDC.
The CDC Museum is the only part of CDC open to the public. Schedule your visit
today! Admission and parking are free.

More

Opioid Overdose

![I'm not supposed to be the one to pick which sneakers I'm going to bury him
in - Anne Marie](/about/images/homepage/opioid-bucket-4-26-523px.jpg)

From 1999 to 2017, more than 200,000 people died from overdoses related to
prescription opioids. Prescription opioids can be addictive and dangerous.
Learn more about prescription opioids misuse and overdose, data, and
prevention resources at CDC.

More

CDC Organization

![cdc headquarters building](/about/images/homepage/cdc-HQ.jpg)

CDC is one of the major operating components of the Department of Health and
Human Services. View CDC's Official Mission Statements/Organizational Charts
to learn more about CDC′s organizational structure.

More

About CDC 24-7

            * Laboratory Safety at CDC
            * Leadership
            * Organization
            * Mission and Vision
            * Funding & Grants
            * Jobs and Careers
            * Winnable Battles
            * Vital Signs
            * Public Health Grand Rounds

I Am CDC - Meet the Staff

I Am CDC - CAPT Casey Barton Behravesh

media iconLow Resolution Video

I've been at CDC since 2006. I'm a Captain in the United States Public Health
Service, a veterinarian, and an epidemiologist.

More

CDC Works for You 24-7

CDC: Protecting Americans through Global Health

Cdc-mediaLow Resolution Video

CDC is the nation's health protection agency, working 24/7 to protect America
from health and safety threats, both foreign and domestic. CDC increases the
health security of our nation.

More

Page last reviewed: April 6, 2020

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home About CDC 24-7

            * Leadershipplus icon
              * Director
              * Principal Deputy Director
              * CDC Staff Officesplus icon
                * Office of the Associate Director for Communication (OADC) 
                * Office of the Associate Director for Policy and Strategy (OADPS)
                * Chief Medical Officer
                * Office of the Chief of Staff (OCS)
                * Office of the Chief Operating Officer (OCOO)
                * CDC Washington Office
                * Office of Equal Employment Opportunity (OEEO)
              * National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)
              * Public Health Service and Implementation Science (PHSIS)plus icon
                * Office of Minority Health and Health Equity (OMHHE)
                * Center for Global Health (CGH)
                * Center for Preparedness and Response (CPR) 
                * Center for State, Tribal, Local, and Territorial Support (CSTLTS)
              * Public Health Science and Surveillance (PHSS)plus icon
                * Office of Science (OS)
                * Office of Laboratory Science and Safety (OLSS)
                * Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Laboratory Services (CSELS)
                * National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS)
              * Non-Infectious Diseases (NID)plus icon
                * National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (NCBDDD)
                * National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion (NCCDPHP)
                * National Center for Environmental Health/Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry* (NCEH/ATSDR)
                * National Center for Injury Prevention and Control (NCIPC)
              * Infectious Diseases (ID)plus icon
                * National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD)
                * National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID)
                * National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention (NCHHSTP)
              * Past Directors
            * Speakers Bureauplus icon
              * Request a Speaker
              * CDC Director: Speaker Request
              * Community & School Eventsplus icon
                * Community Relations
            * CDC Organizationplus icon
              * Mission, Role and Pledgeplus icon
                * Pledge to the American People
              * Organization Chart
              * Official Mission Statements & Organizational Charts
            * A Bold Promise to the Nationplus icon
              * CDC Strategic Frameworkplus icon
                * 2019 Progress Report
              * Securing Global Health
              * Eliminating Disease 
              * Ending Epidemics
              * 2019 CDC Funding
              * Watch CDC @Work
              * I Am CDC â Meet the Staff
            * Fact of the Weekplus icon
              * Fact of the Week Archives
            * Business Practicesplus icon
              * CDC Foundation
            * Laboratory Science & Safety
            * Diversity and Inclusion Management
            * History
            * More About CDCplus icon
              * Zika Response & Success Stories
              * 2014 Ebola Outbreak Responseplus icon
                * Ebola Report
              * CDC Archivesplus icon
                * Advisory Committees

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

            * About CDC
            * Jobs
            * Funding
            * Policies
            * File Viewers & Players

            * Privacy
            * FOIA
            * No Fear Act
            * OIG
            * Nondiscrimination
            * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

            * Facebook
            * Twitter
            * Youtube
            * Instagram
  

            * Syndicate
            * CDC TV
            * RSS
            * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

            * Facebook
            * Twitter
            * LinkedIn
            * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

            * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
            * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
            * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
            * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

