https://www.cdc.gov/healthypets/pets/cats.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/healthypets/pets/cats.html    
                Description: Pets provide many benefits to humans. They comfort us and they give us companionship. However, some animals can also pass diseases to people. These diseases are called zoonoses.    
                Keywords: pets,  zoonoses,  zoonosis,  reptiles,  turtles,  dogs,  cats,  healthy pets,  healthy people,  animals,  animal health, Animal-Related Diseases    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Healthy Pets, Healthy People

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate

# Cats

Minus

Related Pages

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthy People
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthy Cats
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources

![Closeup image of a beautiful Asian woman sitting on sofa and looking at a
little brown cat while its sleeping on a black
pillow](/healthypets/images/pets/woman-with-cat-asleep-medium.jpg)

Research has shown that cats can provide emotional support, improve moods, and
contribute to the overall morale of their owners. Cats are also credited with
promoting socialization among older individuals and physically or mentally
disabled people. Nearly 40 million households in the United States have pet
cats.

Although cats are great companions, cat owners should be aware that sometimes
cats can carry harmful germs that can cause a variety of illnesses in people,
ranging from minor skin infections to serious illnesses. One of the best ways
you can protect yourself from getting sick is to thoroughly wash your hands
after handling, cleaning up after, or feeding cats.

By providing your cat with routine veterinary care and following the Healthy
People tips, you are less likely to get sick from touching, petting, or owning
a cat.

**Read below to learn about diseases that can be spread by cats and visit
theHealthy People section to learn about staying healthy around pet cats.**

Campylobacteriosis ( _Campylobacter_ spp.)

 _Campylobacter_ are bacteria that can make people and animals sick with a
disease called campylobacteriosis.

**How it spreads:** People get _Campylobacter_ infection by coming into
contact with feces (poop) of infected animals, including cats, or by consuming
contaminated food or water. Typically, _Campylobacter_ is spread when people
don't wash their hands after touching animals or their food, poop, toys, or
beds, but it can also sometimes infect you through an open wound. Cats
commonly become infected by eating contaminated raw meat and shed the bacteria
in their poop.

**Who is at risk:** Anyone can get a _Campylobacter_ infection, but children
younger than 5 years of age, adults over 65 years of age, and people with
weakened immune systems are more at risk for serious illness.

**Signs in cats:** Cats may appear healthy and show no signs of
_Campylobacter_ infection or they can have diarrhea that may be bloody.

**Symptoms in people:** People can have diarrhea (often bloody), fever, and
stomach cramps. The diarrhea may be accompanied by nausea and vomiting.
Symptoms usually start within 2-5 days after infection and last about 1 week.

More Information

Cat Scratch Disease ( _Bartonella henselae_ )

Cat scratch disease (CSD) is an infection caused by the bacteria _Bartonella
henselae,_ and less commonly other _Bartonella_ species.

**How it spreads:** Cats become infected through flea bites, fights with other
infected cats, or blood transfusions. People can be exposed to the bacteria
through the scratch or lick of an infected cat.

**Who is at risk:** Young cats (less than 1 year of age), strays or cats
living in shelters, cats with current or previous flea infestation, and cats
that hunt are most likely to have the bacteria. Any person can get sick from
CSD, but illness is most common in children and adolescents under 15 years of
age and people with weakened immune systems.

**Signs in pets:** About one third to half of cats have been exposed to the
bacteria at some point in their lifetime. Although most infected cats do not
appear sick, some cats may experience mild illness with fever that lasts for
approximately 2-3 days. Rarely, the disease can cause more serious signs in
cats, including vomiting, red eyes, swollen lymph nodes, tiredness, and/or low
appetite. _Bartonella_ infection in dogs is less common, but more likely to
cause illness, compared to cats.

**Signs in people:** The CSD bacteria may cause a mild infection with a small,
raised, solid bump at the site of the scratch and lymph node swelling near the
site of the scratch. This occurs 1-3 weeks after exposure (for example, a cat
scratch or lick). The infection can also cause fever, and less commonly eye
infection, muscle pain, or more severe symptoms.

More Information

Cat Tapeworm ( _Dipylidium caninum_ )

The cat tapeworm is a parasite spread to dogs, cats, and people through the
ingestion of infected fleas. This parasite is common in cats but rarely causes
illness in pets or people.

**How it spreads:** The tapeworm is spread when a cat or person swallows an
infected flea. Cats may swallow fleas when self-grooming. Treating pets for
fleas can help prevent infection.

**Who is at risk:** The risk of a person getting this tapeworm is extremely
low because you must swallow a flea to become infected. Most cases occur in
children.

**Signs in dogs:** Tapeworms are usually not harmful for cats and usually
don't cause illness. The parasite can sometimes be detected by finding rice-
like segments of the tapeworm crawling near the anus or in fresh feces (poop).
If a dog is heavily infected, it may lose weight.

**Symptoms in people:** _Dipylidium_ infection is rare in people and usually
doesn't cause any symptoms. Sometimes the infection can be detected by finding
rice-like segments of the tapeworm crawling near the anus or in fresh poop.

More Information

Cryptosporidiosis ( _Cryptosporidium_ spp.)

Cryptosporidiosis is a parasitic disease caused by the germ _Cryptosporidium_
(or Crypto for short), which is spread by accidentally swallowing poop from an
infected person or animal.

**How it spreads:** Crypto spreads through swallowing poop containing the germ
after contact with an infected person or animal, or through poop in
contaminated food or water. For example, people can get Crypto after
swallowing recreational water, drinking untreated water from a lake or river,
or touching their mouth after handling an infected animal.

**Who is at risk:** Anyone can been infected with Crypto, but people with
weakened immune systems are more at risk, especially for severe disease.

**Signs in cats:** Crypto in cats is rare, but sometimes cats can carry the
parasite without showing any signs of illness.

**Symptoms in people:** Symptoms include profuse, watery diarrhea with
cramping, abdominal pain, vomiting, and nausea. The symptoms typically resolve
within 1-2 weeks.

More Information

Giardiasis ( _Giardia duodenalis_ )

 _Giardia_ is a parasite that can be found on surfaces or in water, food, or
soil that has been contaminated by poop from an infected person or animal.

**How it spreads:** _Giardia_ spreads through swallowing microscopic poop
containing the parasite following contact with an infected person or animal or
by drinking water or eating food that has been contaminated with poop from
infected people or animals.

**Who is at risk:** The risk of getting _Giardia_ from cats is small. The
exact type of _Giardia_ that makes people sick is usually not the same that
infects cats. Anyone can get _Giardia,_ but the following groups have a higher
risk:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * International travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * People who have contact with children in diapers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * People who have contact with poop during sexual contact with someone who is infected with _Giardia_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * People who drink untreated water from a river, lake, stream, or spring
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * People who swim in natural bodies of water

**Signs in cats:** Cats with _Giardia_ may have diarrhea, greasy stools, or
become dehydrated.

**Symptoms in people:** People with _Giardia_ may experience diarrhea, gas,
abdominal discomfort, nausea, and vomiting. However, it is possible to be
infected and have no signs of illness.

More Information

Hookworm ( _Ancylostoma tubaeforme, Ancylostoma braziliense, Uncinaria
stenocephala_ )

Hookworms are tiny worms that can spread through contact with contaminated
soil or sand.

**How it spreads:** People can get hookworm infection by walking barefoot,
kneeling, or sitting on ground that is contaminated with poop from infected
animals. Cats can be infected by ingesting the parasite from the environment
or through their mother's milk or colostrum.

**Who is at risk:** Anyone can get hookworm infection.

**Signs in cats:** In kittens, hookworm can cause anemia and weight loss, and
severe infections can be fatal.

**Symptoms in people:** People with hookworm infection can experience an itchy
reaction and a red squiggly line may appear where the parasite larvae migrated
under the skin. Unlike human hookworms, animal hookworms don't survive in an
infected person, so symptoms typically resolve within 4-6 weeks without
medical treatment.

More Information

MRSA (Methicillin-Resistant _Staphylococcus aureus_ )

 _Staphylococcus aureus_ is a common type of a bacteria normally found on the
skin of people and animals. MRSA is _Staphylococcus aureus_ bacteria that have
become resistant to some antibiotics. MRSA can cause a variety of infections,
including skin infections, pneumonia (lung infection), and other problems.

**How it spreads:** MRSA can spread between people and animals through direct
contact (touching).  Even cats that aren't sick can carry MRSA and spread it
to people.

**Who is at risk:** Anyone can get a MRSA infection.

**Signs in cats:** Cats often don't show signs of MRSA infection, but they can
experience skin, respiratory, and urinary tract infections.

**Symptoms in people:** Most people with MRSA will carry it without showing
any symptoms. For people who develop a MRSA infection, the most common type is
a skin infection. If left untreated, MRSA can rarely spread to the lungs or
bloodstream and become life-threatening.

More Information

Plague ( _Yersinia pestis_ )

Plague is caused by _Yersinia pestis_ , bacteria that can cause illness in
people and animals. In the western United States, fleas can pass the bacteria
to rodents and other small animals. People and pets (dogs, cats) are at risk
when they are bitten by infected fleas. Dogs and cats can get sick with plague
and also spread the infection to humans.

**How it spreads:** People and animals are most commonly infected by flea
bites, but touching plague-infected animals can also cause illness. People can
also become infected by inhaling infectious droplets that a sick cat has
coughed into the air.

**Who is at risk:** People that live in or travel to the western United
States, particularly in rural areas, may be at risk. In addition, people with
animal contact (for example, sleeping with pets) and hunters may be at risk.

**Signs in cats:** Cats are especially at risk for plague. Cats with plague
may have a fever, low appetite, low energy, and swollen lymph nodes on their
neck that can sometimes look like a wound. Cats can develop plague pneumonia
and may cough or have difficulty breathing. Owners should minimize contact
with sick pets and seek veterinary care as soon as possible to decrease the
risk of people getting sick.

**Symptoms in people:** Bubonic plague is the most common form in people.
Symptoms of bubonic plague include painful, swollen lymph nodes, sudden onset
of high fever, chills, headache, and weakness. Other forms of plague,
including septicemic plague and plague pneumonia, can cause more severe
symptoms.

More Information

Rabies

Rabies is a deadly neurologic disease caused by a virus that spreads primarily
through bites of infected animals. Cat owners should get cats vaccinated
against rabies.

**How it spreads:** Rabies spreads through contact with saliva or
brain/nervous system tissue from an infected animal, usually through scratches
or bites.

**Who is at risk** : Rabies is rare in the United States because of successful
animal control and vaccination programs, but the disease is still found in
wild animals such as bats, foxes, raccoons, and skunks. You or your pet could
be at risk for rabies if you come into contact with an infected animal.

**Signs in cats:** Cats with rabies often experience sudden behavioral changes
and progressive paralysis. They may also have restlessness, panting, or they
may attack other animals, people, or objects. Animals with rabies typically
die within a few days after symptoms start.

**Symptoms in people:** Symptoms of rabies in people can appear days to months
after exposure. Once symptoms appear, it is almost always too late for
treatment, so if you have been bitten by a cat or another animal, you should
wash the wound immediately and see a doctor right away.

More Information

Ringworm

Ringworm is an infection caused by fungus that can infect the skin, hair, or
nails of people and animals.

**How it spreads:** Ringworm spreads through direct contact with an infected
animal or person (touching), or from the environment.

**Who is at risk:** Anyone can get ringworm.

**Signs in cats:** Some cats might not show signs of ringworm infection, but
others typically have small areas of hair loss around their ears, face, or
legs with scaly or crusty skin. Kittens are most commonly affected.

**Symptoms in people:** Ringworm infections in people are usually itchy and
can appear on almost any part of the body. Redness, scaling, cracking of the
skin, or a ring-shaped rash may occur. If the infection is on the scalp or
beard, hair may fall out. Infected nails can become discolored, thick, or
could crumble.

More Information

Roundworms ( _Toxocara_ spp.)

Roundworm is a parasite that can cause an infection called toxocariasis.
Roundworms are commonly found in the intestines of cats.

**How it spreads:** Cats shed roundworm eggs in their poop. People and cats
can get roundworms by swallowing roundworm eggs from the environment, such as
dirt contaminated with cat poop.

**Who is at risk:** Anyone can become infected with roundworms.

**Signs in cats:** Kittens typically don't appear sick but those that do could
have mild diarrhea, dehydration, a rough coat, and a pot-bellied appearance.

**Symptoms in people:** There are two types of illness associated with
roundworms in people. Ocular toxocariasis happens when roundworm larvae
migrate to the eye and can cause vision loss, eye inflammation, or damage to
the retina. Typically, only one eye is affected. Visceral toxocariasis happens
when the roundworm larvae migrate to various body organs (like the liver,
lungs, or central nervous system) and can cause fever, fatigue, coughing or
wheezing, or abdominal pain.

More Information

Salmonellosis ( _Salmonella_ spp.)

Salmonellosis is caused by _Salmonella_ bacteria, which are most commonly
spread through contaminated food. _Salmonella_ also spreads from animals,
including cats, to people and from people to people.

**How it spreads:** People can become infected by eating contaminated food or
through contact with animal poop. Cats can become infected with _Salmonella_
by eating infected birds, rodents, or contaminated pet food, especially raw
pet food.

**Who is at risk:** Anyone can get a _Salmonella_ infection, but children
younger than 5 years of age, adults 65 years of age and older, and people with
weakened immune systems are more at risk for serious illness.

**Signs in cats:** Adults cats typically do not show signs of infection.
Infected kittens may have diarrhea.

**Symptoms in people:** People may experience diarrhea, fever, and abdominal
cramps. Symptoms usually start within 6 hours-4 days after infection and last
4-7 days.

More Information

Sporotrichosis ( _Sporothrix_ spp).

Sporotrichosis is an infection caused by fungus found in the environment.

**How it spreads:** The fungus typically spreads from the environment through
a cut or scrape in the skin, but has also been associated with scratches or
bites from animals, particularly cats.

**Who is at risk:** Anyone can get sporotrichosis, but people who handle plant
matter (such as moss, roses, or hay) or come in contact with infected animals
are especially at risk. People with weakened immune systems are at a higher
risk for infection, particularly for disseminated infections.

**Signs in cats:** Cats with sporotrichosis may have no signs of illness to
serious disease. Signs often begin with small draining wounds that become
raised lumps with the surface eroded away. The disease can then worsen.

**Symptoms in people:** The symptoms of sporotrichosis depend on where the
fungus is growing.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Cutaneous (skin) form_ : Begins with a small, painless bump that shows up around 1-12 weeks after exposure. The bump can be red, pink, or purple and grows larger to eventually look like an open sore or ulcer that is very slow to heal. Additional bumps can appear near the original one.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Disseminated form_ : In this form, the infection affects the internal organs and bones.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Pulmonary form_ : Symptoms include cough, shortness of breath, chest pain, and fever.

The disseminated and pulmonary forms can be very serious and sometimes deadly.

More Information

Tickborne Diseases

Pets are at risk for tickborne infections, including Lyme disease, tularemia,
ehrlichiosis, babesiosis, and others. Pet owners should consult with a
veterinarian on appropriate products for their pets to prevent ticks. Treating
pets for ticks can reduce the risk of tickborne diseases for you and your
pets.

**How it spreads:** Tickborne germs spread through the bite of an infected
tick. During the feeding process, small amounts of saliva pass from the tick
into the skin of the animal or person.

**Who is at risk:** People and pets that spend time in tick habitat (grassy,
wooded, or brushy areas) are at risk for tick exposure. Cats may have ticks in
and around the ears, around the eyelids, under collars, under front legs,
between back legs, between the toes, or around the tail. Remove ticks from
pets promptly to reduce disease risk.

**Signs in pets:** Signs of tickborne disease in pets can vary depending on
the type of infection, or they may not show any signs of illness.

**Symptoms in people:** Symptoms of tickborne diseases in people can vary, but
usually include fever, chills, body aches, and sometimes a rash. Some
tickborne diseases can be very serious and even deadly. See your healthcare
provider if you have been in tick habitat or been bitten by a tick and develop
any of these symptoms.

More Information

Toxoplasmosis ( _Toxoplasma gondii_ )

Toxoplasmosis is a disease caused by a parasite found in soil, water, meat, or
poop from an infected animal, particularly cats.

**How it spreads:** People can get toxoplasmosis through contact with cat poop
or by eating undercooked meat or shellfish. Cats become infected by eating
infected rodents, birds, or other small animals. The parasite then sheds in
the cat's feces, contaminating the environment or the cat's litterbox. People
can get infected by consuming contaminated food or water. People can also
become infected if they do not wash their hands after cleaning a cat's
litterbox or handling anything contaminated by cat poop.

**Who is at risk:** Anyone can get toxoplasmosis, but people with weakened
immune systems are more likely to have serious illness. Pregnant women
infected with the parasite can pass the infection to their unborn child, which
can result in birth defects.

**Signs in cats:** Cats with toxoplasmosis rarely appear sick but can shed the
parasite in feces for as long as 3 weeks after infection.

**Symptoms in people:** Most healthy people with toxoplasmosis don't have
symptoms, but some may have mild flu-like symptoms, or rarely, develop eye
disease. People with weakened immune systems can have more serious
complications from toxoplasmosis, including brain disease. Pregnant women who
may have been exposed should talk with their doctor because of the risk for
birth defects.

More Information

![Senior man playing with kitten at nursing
home](/healthypets/images/pets/man-holding-cat-medium.jpg)

### How to stay healthy around pet cats

Before buying or adopting a pet cat, make sure a cat is the right type of pet
for your family. Cats can sometimes carry germs that can make people sick,
even when they appear clean and healthy. Visit your veterinarian for routine
care to keep your cat healthy and to prevent infectious diseases.

#### Wash your hands

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Wash your hands with soap and running water: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * After handling cats, their food and water dishes, or their supplies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * After contact with cat saliva or poop
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * After cleaning a litter box
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * After gardening, especially if outdoor cats live in the area
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Before you eat or drink
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Adults should supervise hand washing for children under 5 years of age.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Use hand sanitizer if soap and water are not readily available.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Wear gloves while gardening, particularly if you know that outdoor cats live in the area.

#### Safely clean up after your cat

Cats can carry many germs in their poop. To stay healthy, take precautions
when cleaning a cat's litter box.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Change litter boxes daily.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Always wash your hands after cleaning the litter box, even if you use a scoop to remove the poop.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * People with weakened immune systems and pregnant women should not clean litter boxes if possible, as they are more at risk for complications from germs spread by cats. If no one else can perform the task, wear disposable gloves and wash your hands afterwards.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Keep your cat's litter box away from other animals, children, and food preparation areas.

![A little kitten is lying on the lap](/healthypets/images/pets/cat-rubbing-
medium.jpg)

#### Prevent cat scratches and bites

Cat bites and scratches can spread germs, even if the wound does not seem deep
or serious. For example, cat scratch disease can happen if a scratch only
breaks the surface of the skin. We don't know exactly how many people are
bitten or scratched by cats each year because incidents often aren't reported.
However, we do know that about 20-80% of reported cat bites and scratches
become infected.

##### How to prevent cat bites and scratches

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Be cautious with unfamiliar animals. Approach cats with care, even if they seem friendly.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Avoid rough play with cats and kittens.  Rough play causes cats to be defensive toward people.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Avoid rough play when animals are young. This will lead to fewer scratches and bites as animals become older. Studies have shown cats generally bite when provoked.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Trim your cat's nails regularly. If you need help, ask your veterinarian.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Parents should tell children to let them know if they are ever bitten or scratched by any animal, including cats.

##### What to do if you are bitten or scratched by a cat

If you are bitten or scratched by a cat, you should:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Wash wounds with warm soapy water immediately.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Seek medical attention if: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * You don't know if the cat has been vaccinated against rabies.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * The cat appears sick.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * The wound is serious.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * The wound becomes red, painful, warm or swollen.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * It has been more than 5 years since your last tetanus shot.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Report the bite to animal control or your local health department if the bite is unprovoked and 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * The cat is a stray, or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * You are unsure if the cat has been vaccinated against rabies.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Because of the risk of rabies, ensure that the cat is seen by a veterinarian and contact your local health department if it becomes sick or dies shortly after the bite.

### How to keep pet cats healthy

![Persian cat with veterinarian doctor](/healthypets/images/pets/woman-with-
cat-medium.jpg)

Keeping your cat healthy helps to keep you and your family healthy. To learn
how to stay healthy around pet cats, visit the Healthy People section.

#### Before choosing a cat

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Certain types of cat or kitten adoptions, like international pet adoption, may not be suitable for your family because of the risk for disease. This is particularly true if young children, pregnant women, or people with weakened immune systems live in the household.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Research and learn how to properly care for your cat or kitten before purchase. Ask your veterinarian or pet store staff about the proper food, care, and enclosure or environment that is best for the cat or kitten you are selecting.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Be aware that cats may shed _Toxoplasma_ , _Giardia_ , hookworms, roundworms and other germs in their poop. Plan to change the litterbox daily and always wash your hands after.

![a kitten is alert with bright eyes](/healthypets/images/kitten-allert.jpg)

#### How to choose a cat

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Match a cat's personality and activity levels with your family, the animals you already have in your household, and the amount of time you have to spend with your pet.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pick a cat that is bright, alert, and playful. Cats and kittens should have shiny, soft fur that is free of poop and debris.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Signs of sickness in a cat include appearing sluggish or depressed, having diarrhea, abnormal breathing, and fluid running from its eyes or nose.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Make sure to take your new cat or kitten to the veterinarian within a few days to a week after adoption.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * If your cat becomes sick or dies soon after purchase or adoption, take it to the veterinarian promptly, and inform the pet store, breeder, or rescue organization about the pet's illness or death. Make sure to tell your veterinarian if the pet was adopted from a shelter or from international pet adoption.

#### How to house your cat

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * It is important that you provide a safe, warm, and comfortable environment for your cat to live in. Talk to your veterinarian about creating a safe environment for your cat.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * If you allow your cat outside, provide shelter when it is cold or rainy and shade when it is hot. Your cat should have access to the indoors at night to stay safe from predators.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Make sure your cat has access to food and fresh water every day.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Be aware that leaving food outdoors for your cat may attract unwanted wildlife. This wildlife can spread diseases to your cat.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Each cat in a household should have its own litterbox plus one additional box.

#### Monitor your cat's health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Take your cat to the veterinarian regularly to keep it healthy and prevent infectious diseases.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Talk to your veterinarian about preventive treatments for fleas, heartworms, ticks, and other parasites.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Make sure to clean up any urine, poop, or vomit in the house immediately, and disinfect the area after cleaning. Make sure to wash your hands thoroughly afterwards.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Contact your veterinarian if you notice any signs of illness in your pet. Keep in mind that even cats that look healthy can spread germs to people and other animals.

#### Get your cat vaccinated

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Keep your cat up-to-date on routine vaccinations like rabies and feline distemper vaccine.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Vaccinations can help protect your cat from dangerous diseases and help them live a longer, healthier life.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tell your veterinarian about your cat's lifestyle, including whether it is indoor or outdoor or both and if there are other animals at home or that the cat may come into contact with.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ask your veterinarian about other vaccines you may need or want for your cat, like feline leukemia.

### Selecting and caring for a pet cat

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Selecting a catexternal icon  
American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Traveling with your Cat  
external iconUSDA-APHIS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Administration of Rabies Vaccination State Lawsexternal icon  
Includes PDF table of laws by state. American Veterinary Medical Association

### Staying healthy around cats

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How to check your pet for ticks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Preventing ticks on your pets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 4 Tips to Stay Healthy Around Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pet Safety in Emergencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pet Food Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Adopt These Healthy Pet Habits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How to Stay Healthy around Pets

#### Podcasts

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zoonoses in the Bedroom
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * People Can Catch Diseases from Their Pets

### Diseases associated with cats

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cat scratch disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Roundworms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Toxoplasmosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Rabies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Campylobacteriosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Salmonellosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cryptosporidiosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Giardiasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hookworm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MRSA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Plague
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ringworm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tickborne diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sporotrichosis

Page last reviewed: April 1, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID)

home Healthy Pets, Healthy People

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About Pets & People
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pets & Other Animalsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Birds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cats
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Dogs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Farm Animalsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Backyard Poultry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ferrets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Fish
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Horses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Reptiles and Amphibiansplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Safe Handling of Pet Reptiles & Amphibians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Rodents Used for Pet Food
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Small Mammalsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * _Salmonella_ from Small Mammals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Pet Rodents 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Wildlife
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diseasesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cat-Scratch Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _E. coli_ Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ringworm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Specific Groups & Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Teachers & Daycare Staff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Healthcare Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Veterinarians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Animal Exhibit Visitors & Managers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Organ Transplant Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Infants and Young Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * US Outbreaks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Educational Materialsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Multimedia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Social Media Graphics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Antibiotic Resistance in Pets and People
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * How to Stay Healthy around Pets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stay Healthy Around Small Pets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stay Healthy Around Pet Reptiles and Amphibians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stay Safe and Healthy While Feeding Reptiles and Amphibians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Checking Pets for Ticks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Healthy Pet Habits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Healthy Families and Flocks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pet Food Safetyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Pet Food Safety _Spanish_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Trouble with Tiny Turtlesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Trouble with Tiny Turtles _Spanish_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pet Safety in Emergenciesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pets in Evacuation Centers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pet Safety in Emergencies _Spanish_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pet Disaster Preparedness Kit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pets & Antibiotic Resistance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Digital Press Kit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Connect With Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * New & Noteworthy

![Badge for One Health](/healthypets/images/one-health-badge.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM

