https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/69/wr/mm6913e2.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/69/wr/mm6913e2.htm    
                Description: Based on preliminary U.S. data, people with select underlying health conditions (e.g. diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and chronic lung disease) and known risk factors for respiratory infections (e.g. smoking) appear to be at higher risk for severe disease (hospitalizations and admission to intensive care units) from COVID-19 than people without these conditions.    
                Keywords: Surveillance Of Patients With Underlying Health Conditions COVID-19, Patients With Coronavirus Disease 2019, Risk For COVID-19 Severe Illness, Prevalence Of Health Conditions In Patients With Coronavirus Disease, Patients With Comorbidities Higher Risk For COVID-19, COVID-19, MMWR, Morbidity &amp; Mortality Weekly Report, Public Health    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report ( _MMWR_ )

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate

# Preliminary Estimates of the Prevalence of Selected Underlying Health
Conditions Among Patients with Coronavirus Disease 2019 â United States,
February 12âMarch 28, 2020

_Weekly_ / April 3, 2020 / 69(13);382â386

Minus

Related Pages

_On March 31, 2020, this report was posted online as an_ MMWR _Early Release._

CDC COVID-19 Response Team (View author affiliations)

View suggested citation

###  **Summary**

**What is already known about this topic?**

Published reports from China and Italy suggest that risk factors for severe
COVID-19 disease include underlying health conditions, but data describing
underlying health conditions among U.S. COVID-19 patients have not yet been
reported.

**What is added by this report?**

Based on preliminary U.S. data, persons with underlying health conditions such
as diabetes mellitus, chronic lung disease, and cardiovascular disease, appear
to be at higher risk for severe COVID-19-associated disease than persons
without these conditions.

**What are the implications for public health practice?**

Strategies to protect all persons and especially those with underlying health
conditions, including social distancing and handwashing, should be implemented
by all communities and all persons to help slow the spread of COVID-19.

Article Metrics

##### Altmetric:

##### Citations:

##### Views:

_Views equals page views plus PDF downloads_

Metric Details

**Figure**

 **Tables**

Table 1

Table 2

 **References**

Related Materials

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * PDF pdf icon[115K]

On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared Coronavirus Disease
2019 (COVID-19) a pandemic ( _1_ ). As of March 28, 2020, a total of 571,678
confirmed COVID-19 cases and 26,494 deaths have been reported worldwide ( _2_
). Reports from China and Italy suggest that risk factors for severe disease
include older age and the presence of at least one of several underlying
health conditions ( _3_ , _4_ ). U.S. older adults, including those aged ≥65
years and particularly those aged ≥85 years, also appear to be at higher risk
for severe COVID-19-associated outcomes; however, data describing underlying
health conditions among U.S. COVID-19 patients have not yet been reported (
_5_ ). As of March 28, 2020, U.S. states and territories have reported 122,653
U.S. COVID-19 cases to CDC, including 7,162 (5.8%) for whom data on underlying
health conditions and other known risk factors for severe outcomes from
respiratory infections were reported. Among these 7,162 cases, 2,692 (37.6%)
patients had one or more underlying health condition or risk factor, and 4,470
(62.4%) had none of these conditions reported. The percentage of COVID-19
patients with at least one underlying health condition or risk factor was
higher among those requiring intensive care unit (ICU) admission (358 of 457,
78%) and those requiring hospitalization without ICU admission (732 of 1,037,
71%) than that among those who were not hospitalized (1,388 of 5,143, 27%).
The most commonly reported conditions were diabetes mellitus, chronic lung
disease, and cardiovascular disease. These preliminary findings suggest that
in the United States, persons with underlying health conditions or other
recognized risk factors for severe outcomes from respiratory infections appear
to be at a higher risk for severe disease from COVID-19 than are persons
without these conditions.

Data from laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 cases reported to CDC from 50 states,
four U.S. territories and affiliated islands, the District of Columbia, and
New York City with February 12-March 28, 2020 onset dates were analyzed. Cases
among persons repatriated to the United States from Wuhan, China, and the
Diamond Princess cruise ship were excluded. For cases with missing onset
dates, date of onset was estimated by subtracting 4 days (median interval from
symptom onset to specimen collection date among cases with known dates in
these data) from the earliest specimen collection. Public health departments
reported cases to CDC using a standardized case report form that captures
information (yes, no, or unknown) on the following conditions and potential
risk factors: chronic lung disease (inclusive of asthma, chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease [COPD], and emphysema); diabetes mellitus; cardiovascular
disease; chronic renal disease; chronic liver disease; immunocompromised
condition; neurologic disorder, neurodevelopmental, or intellectual
disability; pregnancy; current smoking status; former smoking status; or other
chronic disease ( _6_ ). Data reported to CDC are preliminary and can be
updated by health departments over time; critical data elements might be
missing at the time of initial report; thus, this analysis is descriptive, and
no statistical comparisons could be made.

The percentages of patients of all ages with underlying health conditions who
were not hospitalized, hospitalized without ICU admission, and hospitalized
with ICU admission were calculated. Percentages of hospitalizations with and
without ICU admission were estimated for persons aged ≥19 years with and
without underlying health conditions. This part of the analysis was limited to
persons aged ≥19 years because of the small sample size of cases in children
with reported underlying health conditions (N = 32). To account for missing
data among these preliminary reports, ranges were estimated with a lower bound
including cases with both known and unknown status for hospitalization with
and without ICU admission as the denominator and an upper bound using only
cases with known outcome status as the denominator. Because of small sample
size and missing data on underlying health conditions among COVID-19 patients
who died, case-fatality rates for persons with and without underlying
conditions were not estimated.

As of March 28, 2020, a total of 122,653 laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 cases
(Figure) and 2,112 deaths were reported to CDC. Case report forms were
submitted to CDC for 74,439 (60.7%) cases. Data on presence or absence of
underlying health conditions and other recognized risk factors for severe
outcomes from respiratory infections (i.e., smoking and pregnancy) were
available for 7,162 (5.8%) patients (Table 1). Approximately one third of
these patients (2,692, 37.6%), had at least one underlying condition or risk
factor. Diabetes mellitus (784, 10.9%), chronic lung disease (656, 9.2%), and
cardiovascular disease (647, 9.0%) were the most frequently reported
conditions among all cases. Among 457 ICU admissions and 1,037 non-ICU
hospitalizations, 358 (78%) and 732 (71%), respectively occurred among persons
with one or more reported underlying health condition. In contrast, 1,388 of
5,143 (27%) COVID-19 patients who were not hospitalized were reported to have
at least one underlying health condition.

Among patients aged ≥19 years, the percentage of non-ICU hospitalizations was
higher among those with underlying health conditions (27.3%-29.8%) than among
those without underlying health conditions (7.2%-7.8%); the percentage of
cases that resulted in an ICU admission was also higher for those with
underlying health conditions (13.3%-14.5%) than those without these conditions
(2.2%-2.4%) (Table 2). Small numbers of COVID-19 patients aged <19 years were
reported to be hospitalized (48) or admitted to an ICU (eight). In contrast,
335 patients aged <19 years were not hospitalized and 1,342 had missing data
on hospitalization. Among all COVID-19 patients with complete information on
underlying conditions or risk factors, 184 deaths occurred (all among patients
aged ≥19 years); 173 deaths (94%) were reported among patients with at least
one underlying condition.

Top

## Discussion

Among 122,653 U.S. COVID-19 cases reported to CDC as of March 28, 2020, 7,162
(5.8%) patients had data available pertaining to underlying health conditions
or potential risk factors; among these patients, higher percentages of
patients with underlying conditions were admitted to the hospital and to an
ICU than patients without reported underlying conditions. These results are
consistent with findings from China and Italy, which suggest that patients
with underlying health conditions and risk factors, including, but not limited
to, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, COPD, coronary artery disease,
cerebrovascular disease, chronic renal disease, and smoking, might be at
higher risk for severe disease or death from COVID-19 ( _3_ , _4_ ). This
analysis was limited by small numbers and missing data because of the burden
placed on reporting health departments with rapidly rising case counts, and
these findings might change as additional data become available.

It is not yet known whether the severity or level of control of underlying
health conditions affects the risk for severe disease associated with
COVID-19. Many of these underlying health conditions are common in the United
States: based on self-reported 2018 data, the prevalence of diagnosed diabetes
among U.S. adults was 10.1% ( _7_ ), and the U.S. age-adjusted prevalence of
all types of heart disease (excluding hypertension without other heart
disease) was 10.6% in 2017 ( _8_ ). The age-adjusted prevalence of COPD among
U.S. adults is 5.9% ( _9_ ), and in 2018, the U.S. estimated prevalence of
current asthma among persons of all ages was 7.9% ( _7_ ). CDC continues to
develop and update resources for persons with underlying health conditions to
reduce the risk of acquiring COVID-19 ( _10_ ). The estimated higher
prevalence of these conditions among those in this early group of U.S.
COVID-19 patients and the potentially higher risk for more severe disease from
COVID-19 associated with the presence of underlying conditions highlight the
importance of COVID-19 prevention in persons with underlying conditions.

The findings in this report are subject to at least six limitations. First,
these data are preliminary, and the analysis was limited by missing data
related to the health department reporting burden associated with rapidly
rising case counts and delays in completion of information requiring medical
chart review; these findings might change as additional data become available.
Information on underlying conditions was only available for 7,162 (5.8%) of
122,653 cases reported to CDC. It cannot be assumed that those with missing
information are similar to those with data on either hospitalizations or
underlying health conditions. Second, these data are subject to bias in
outcome ascertainment because of short follow-up time. Some outcomes might be
underestimated, and long-term outcomes cannot be assessed in this analysis.
Third, because of the limited availability of testing in many jurisdictions
during this period, this analysis is likely biased toward more severe cases,
and findings might change as testing becomes more widespread. Fourth, because
of the descriptive nature of these data, attack rates among persons with and
without underlying health conditions could not be compared, and thus the risk
difference of severe disease with COVID-19 between these groups could not be
estimated. Fifth, no conclusions could be drawn about underlying conditions
that were not included in the case report form or about different conditions
that were reported in a single, umbrella category. For example, asthma and
COPD were included in a chronic lung disease category. Finally, for some
underlying health conditions and risk factors, including neurologic disorders,
chronic liver disease, being a current smoker, and pregnancy, few severe
outcomes were reported; therefore, conclusions cannot be drawn about the risk
for severe COVID-19 among persons in these groups.

Persons in the United States with underlying health conditions appear to be at
higher risk for more severe COVID-19, consistent with findings from other
countries. Persons with underlying health conditions who have symptoms of
COVID-19, including fever, cough, or shortness of breath, should immediately
contact their health care provider. These persons should take steps to protect
themselves from COVID-19, through washing their hands; cleaning and
disinfecting high-touch surfaces; and social distancing, including staying at
home, avoiding crowds, gatherings, and travel, and avoiding contact with
persons who are ill. Maintaining at least a 30-day supply of medication, a
2-week supply of food and other necessities, and knowledge of COVID-19
symptoms are recommended for those with underlying health conditions ( _10_ ).
All persons should take steps to protect themselves from COVID-19 and to
protect others. All persons who are ill should stay home, except to get
medical care; should not go to work; and should stay away from others. This is
especially important for those who work with persons with underlying
conditions or who otherwise are at high risk for severe outcomes from
COVID-19. Community mitigation strategies, which aim to slow the spread of
COVID-19, are important to protect all persons from COVID-19, especially
persons with underlying health conditions and other persons at risk for severe
COVID-19-associated disease
(https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/downloads/community-mitigation-
strategy.pdfpdf icon).

Top

### Acknowledgments

State, local, and territorial health departments; clinical staff members
caring for patients.

### CDC COVID-19 Response Team

Nancy Chow, CDC; Katherine Fleming-Dutra, CDC; Ryan Gierke, CDC; Aron Hall,
CDC; Michelle Hughes, CDC; Tamara Pilishvili, CDC; Matthew Ritchey, CDC;
Katherine Roguski, CDC; Tami Skoff, CDC; Emily Ussery, CDC.

Top

Corresponding author: Katherine Fleming-Dutra, for the CDC COVID-19 Response
Team, eocevent294@cdc.gov, 770-488-7100.

Top

All authors have completed and submitted the International Committee of
Medical Journal Editors form for disclosure of potential conflicts of
interest. No potential conflicts of interest were disclosed.

Top

* * *

## References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1. World Health Organization. WHO Director-General's opening remarks at the media briefing on COVID-19--11 March 2020. Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organization; 2020. https://www.who.int/dg/speeches/detail/who-director-general-s-opening-remarks-at-the-media-briefing-on-covid-19--11-march-2020external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2. World Health Organization. Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) situation report - 68\. Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organization; 2020. https://www.who.int/docs/default-source/coronaviruse/situation-reports/20200328-sitrep-68-covid-19.pdf?sfvrsn=384bc74c_2pdf iconexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3. Guan WJ, Ni ZY, Hu Y, et al.; China Medical Treatment Expert Group for Covid-19. Clinical characteristics of coronavirus disease 2019 in China. N Engl J Med 2020;NEJMoa2002032. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4. COVID-19 Surveillance Group. Characteristics of COVID-19 patients dying in Italy: report based on available data on March 20th, 2020. Rome, Italy: Instituto Superiore Di Sanita; 2020. https://www.epicentro.iss.it/coronavirus/bollettino/Report-COVID-2019_20_marzo_eng.pdfpdf iconexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5. CDC COVID-19 Response Team. Severe outcomes among patients with coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19)--United States, February 12-March 16, 2020. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2020;69:343-6\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6. CDC. Human infection with 2019 novel coronavirus person under investigation (PUI) and case report form. Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2020. https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/downloads/pui-form.pdfpdf icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7. National Health Interview Survey. Early release of selected estimates based on data from the 2018 National Health Interview Survey. Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2020. https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhis/releases/released201905.htm#14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8. Virani SS, Alonso A, Benjamin EJ, et al. ; American Heart Association Council on Epidemiology and Prevention Statistics Committee and Stroke Statistics Subcommittee. Heart disease and stroke statistics--2020 update: a report from the American Heart Association. Circulation 2020;141:e139-596\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9. Croft JB, Wheaton AG, Liu Y, et al. Urban-rural county and state differences in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease--United States, 2015. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2018;67:205-11\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10. CDC. Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19): are you at higher risk for severe illness? Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2020. https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/specific-groups/high-risk-complications.html

Top

##### ![Return to your place in the
text](//www.cdc.gov/images/arrow_up.gif)**FIGURE**. **Daily number of reported
COVID-19 cases* -- United States, February 12-March 28, 2020† **

![The figure is a histogram, an epidemiologic curve showing the number of
COVID-19 cases, by date of report, in the United States during February
12–March 28, 2020. ](/mmwr/volumes/69/wr/figures/mm6913e2-F.gif)

* Cases among persons repatriated to the United States from Wuhan, China, and the Diamond Princess cruise ship are excluded.

† Cumulative number of COVID-19 cases reported daily by jurisdictions to CDC
using aggregate case count was 122,653 through March 28, 2020.

Top

##### **TABLE 1. Reported outcomes among COVID-19 patients of all ages, by
hospitalization status, underlying health condition, and risk factor for
severe outcome from respiratory infection -- United States, February 12-March
28, 2020**![Return to your place in the
text](//www.cdc.gov/images/arrow_up.gif)

Underlying health condition/Risk factor for severe outcomes from respiratory
infection (no., % with condition) | No. (%)  
---|---  
Not hospitalized | Hospitalized, non-ICU | ICU admission | Hospitalization
status unknown  
****Total with case report form (N = 74,439)**** | ****12,217**** |
****5,285**** | ****1,069**** | ****55,868****  
****Missing or unknown status for all conditions (67,277)**** | ****7,074****
| ****4,248**** | ****612**** | ****55,343****  
****Total with completed information (7,162)**** | ****5,143**** |
****1,037**** | ****457**** | ****525****  
One or more conditions (2,692, 37.6%) | 1,388 (27) | 732 (71) | 358 (78) | 214
(41)  
Diabetes mellitus (784, 10.9%) | 331 (6) | 251 (24) | 148 (32) | 54 (10)  
Chronic lung disease* (656, 9.2%) | 363 (7) | 152 (15) | 94 (21) | 47 (9)  
Cardiovascular disease (647, 9.0%) | 239 (5) | 242 (23) | 132 (29) | 34 (6)  
Immunocompromised condition (264, 3.7%) | 141 (3) | 63 (6) | 41 (9) | 19 (4)  
Chronic renal disease (213, 3.0%) | 51 (1) | 95 (9) | 56 (12) | 11 (2)  
Pregnancy (143, 2.0%) | 72 (1) | 31 (3) | 4 (1) | 36 (7)  
Neurologic disorder, neurodevelopmental, intellectual disability (52, 0.7%)† |
17 (0.3) | 25 (2) | 7 (2) | 3 (1)  
Chronic liver disease (41, 0.6%) | 24 (1) | 9 (1) | 7 (2) | 1 (0.2)  
Other chronic disease (1,182, 16.5%)§ | 583 (11) | 359 (35) | 170 (37) | 70
(13)  
Former smoker (165, 2.3%) | 80 (2) | 45 (4) | 33 (7) | 7 (1)  
Current smoker (96, 1.3%) | 61 (1) | 22 (2) | 5 (1) | 8 (2)  
None of the above conditions¶ (4,470, 62.4%) | 3,755 (73) | 305 (29) | 99 (22)
| 311 (59)  
  
****Abbreviation:**** ICU = intensive care unit.  
* Includes any of the following: asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and emphysema.  
† For neurologic disorder, neurodevelopmental, and intellectual disability,
the following information was specified: dementia, memory loss, or Alzheimer's
disease (17); seizure disorder (5); Parkinson's disease (4); migraine/headache
(4); stroke (3); autism (2); aneurysm (2); multiple sclerosis (2); neuropathy
(2); hereditary spastic paraplegia (1); myasthenia gravis (1); intracranial
hemorrhage (1); and altered mental status (1).  
§ For other chronic disease, the following information was specified:
hypertension (113); thyroid disease (37); gastrointestinal disorder (32);
hyperlipidemia (29); cancer or history of cancer (29); rheumatologic disorder
(19); hematologic disorder (17); obesity (17); arthritis, nonrheumatoid,
including not otherwise specified (16); musculoskeletal disorder other than
arthritis (10); mental health condition (9); urologic disorder (7);
cerebrovascular disease (7); obstructive sleep apnea (7); fibromyalgia (7);
gynecologic disorder (6); embolism, pulmonary or venous (5); ophthalmic
disorder (2); hypertriglyceridemia (1); endocrine (1); substance abuse
disorder (1); dermatologic disorder (1); genetic disorder (1).  
¶ All listed chronic conditions, including other chronic disease, were marked
as not present.

Top

##### **TABLE 2. Hospitalization with and without intensive care unit (ICU)
admission, by age group among COVID-19 patients aged ≥19 years with and
without reported underlying health conditions -- United States, February
12-March 28, 2020***![Return to your place in the
text](//www.cdc.gov/images/arrow_up.gif)

Age group (yrs) | Hospitalized without ICU admission, No. (% range†) | ICU
admission, No. (% range†)  
---|---|---  
Underlying condition present/reported§ | Underlying condition
present/reported§  
Yes | No | Yes | No  
19-64 | 285 (18.1-19.9) | 197 (6.2-6.7) | 134 (8.5-9.4) | 58 (1.8-2.0)  
≥65 | 425 (41.7-44.5) | 58 (16.8-18.3) | 212 (20.8-22.2) | 20 (5.8-6.3)  
****Total ≥19**** | ****710 (27.3 -29.8)**** | ****255 (7.2 -7.8)**** |
****346 (13.3 -14.5)**** | ****78 (2.2 -2.4)****  
  
* Includes COVID-19 patients aged ≥19 years with known status on underlying conditions.  
† Lower bound of range = number of persons hospitalized or admitted to an ICU
among total in row stratum; upper bound of range = number of persons
hospitalized or admitted to an ICU among total in row stratum with known
outcome status: hospitalization or ICU admission status.  
 ** **§**** Includes any of following underlying health conditions or risk
factors: chronic lung disease (including asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease, and emphysema); diabetes mellitus; cardiovascular disease; chronic
renal disease; chronic liver disease; immunocompromised condition; neurologic
disorder, neurodevelopmental, or intellectual disability; pregnancy; current
smoker; former smoker; or other chronic disease.

Top

  

 **Suggested citation for this article:** . Preliminary Estimates of the
Prevalence of Selected Underlying Health Conditions Among Patients with
Coronavirus Disease 2019 -- United States, February 12-March 28, 2020. MMWR
Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2020;69:382-386\. DOI:
http://dx.doi.org/10.15585/mmwr.mm6913e2external icon.

_MMWR_ and _Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report_ are service marks of the
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.  
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does
not imply endorsement by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.  
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to
_MMWR_ readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these
organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services. CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these
sites. URL addresses listed in _MMWR_ were current as of the date of
publication.

All HTML versions of _MMWR_ articles are generated from final proofs through
an automated process. This conversion might result in character translation or
format errors in the HTML version. Users are referred to the electronic PDF
version (https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr) and/or the original _MMWR_ paper copy for
printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.

Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to
mmwrq@cdc.gov.

View Page In:pdf icon PDF [115K]

Page last reviewed: April 2, 2020

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home _MMWR_

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Early Release
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Publicationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Weekly Reportplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Past Volumes (1982-2019)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Recommendations and Reportsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Past Volumes (1990-2019)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Surveillance Summariesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Past Volumes (1983-2019)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Supplementsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Past Volumes (1985-2015)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Notifiable Infectious Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Notifiable Noninfectious Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * For Authors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About Â _MMWR_ plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Staff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Editorial Board
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Subscriptionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _MMWR_ Paper Subscription
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Free Continuing Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Additional Â _MMWR_ Â Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Visual Abstracts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Contact Us

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM

