https://blogs.cdc.gov/genomics/2020/03/31/manipulating-the-human/Link: https://blogs.cdc.gov/genomics/2020/03/31/manipulating-the-human/    
                Description: CDC - Blogs - Genomics and Precision Health &#8211; Manipulating the Human Microbiome for Precision Public Health: Prospects and Challenges - Genomics and Precision Health Blog    
                Keywords: public health genomics blog    
                            

Skip directly to search Skip directly to A to Z list Skip directly to
navigation Skip directly to page options Skip directly to site content

![Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People](/TemplatePackage/3.0/images/masthead_subpage.svg)
![Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People](/TemplatePackage/3.0/images/masthead_1-col.svg)

Start of Search Controls

Search Form Controls

TOPIC ONLY

Search The CDC

cancel submit

CDC A-Z Index

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MENU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC A-Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * SEARCH

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * #

Start of Search Controls

Search Form Controls

TOPIC ONLY

Search The CDC

cancel submit

## Genomics and Precision Health

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

### Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About this Blog
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * genomics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * personal genomics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * whole genome sequence
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * pharmacogenomics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * public health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * evidence-based medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * family history
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * investigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * heart disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Authors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Muin J. Khoury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Scott Bowen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * David Dotson
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Marta Gwinn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Office of Genomics & Precision Public Health

### About this Site

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Disclaimers

####   Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Enter Email Address What's this?Submit What's this? Submit Button

# Manipulating the Human Microbiome for Precision Public Health: Prospects and
Challenges

Posted on March 31, 2020 by Melia Haile, Alison Laufer Halpin, Christopher
Elkins, and Clifford McDonald, Division of Healthcare Quality Promotion,
NCEZID; Muin J. Khoury, Office of Genomics and Precision Public Health, Office
of Science, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia

Recommend on Facebook Tweet
![Share](/TemplatePackage/3.0/images/social/addthis-32.png)ShareCompartir

## **Spotlight on the Human Microbiome**

**_The_** ** _human microbiome has a crucial role in driving public health
science and initiatives towards more â_** ** _precision_** ** _â._**

In a recent viewpoint and podcast, Harkins, et al. discuss the potential and
current applications for manipulating the human microbiome for disease
prevention and management. The authors describe several examples of microbiome
manipulation as promising novel therapies. Harkins, et al. highlight a recent,
large randomized controlled trial demonstrating the ability of a probiotic and
prebiotic supplement to prevent neonatal sepsis among children in India. In
addition, fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT), representing administration
of feces, a live biotherapeutic, is increasingly applied in the management of
multiply recurrent _Clostridioides difficile_ infection (CDI), even as the
function of the human microbiome in prevention of CDI is still studied.
Despite these advances, manipulating complex microbial communities for a
particular outcome still presents challenges. Harkins, et al. note the need
for more understanding of the relationship between the microbiome and
inflammatory bowel disease pathogenesis. They conclude by summarizing how
challenges in manipulating human microbiomes are dependent upon the complexity
of the usual microbiota at a particular body site, the importance of specific
strain functions, and understanding the role of microbiota in pathogenesis.

![a body with different external influences surrounding
it](https://blogs.cdc.gov/genomics/files/2020/03/body-300x262.jpg)Illustration
used with permission from Bryan Christie Design,
https://bryanchristiedesign.com/

Progress in understanding how the human microbiome can be leveraged for public
health is exemplified in a recent CDC-funded study. Robinson, et al. explored
the relationship between the intestinal metabolome (all chemicals present in
the intestine) and CDI through fecal metabolomic profiling. The authors
identified metabolites and metabolic processes correlated with CDI
pathogenesis and suggested novel diagnostic approaches for CDI utilizing
metabolomic profiles rather than traditional diagnostic approaches.

Another area of CDC-funded research involves identifying intermediate
milestones of antibiotic-mediated microbiome disruption which may provide data
for action that leads to reductions in transmission of multidrug-resistant
organisms, infection, and even sepsis. Shimasaki, et al. found an association
between high levels of carbapenem-resistant _Klebsiella pneumoniae_ in the gut
microbiome and an increased risk of bacteremia, suggesting either bacterial
translocation from the gut into the bloodstream or a tendency for this
dominant state to lead to skin contamination resulting in catheter-associated
bacteremia. Similarly, Pettigrew, et al. found that, due to ongoing antibiotic
treatment, the majority of their patients in intensive care units had
dominance of their gut microbiome by potential pathogens. Together these
studies provide insights into the observations in another study conducted by
CDC scientists in which Baggs, et al. identified dose-response associations
between receipt of antibiotics during hospitalization and subsequent re-
admission for sepsis.

### Simpler Microbiomes Offer an Opportunity for More Rapid Progress towards
Precision Health

The above publications exemplify what Harkins et al. described as the
considerable challenges of working with a complex microbiome, such as the GI
microbiome; body sites reflecting a simpler aspect of the human microbiome may
offer greater opportunity for rapid progress. For the normally less diverse
vaginal microbiome, live biotherapeutics are under development to treat
bacterial vaginosis, a disorder associated with increased diversity and loss
of the normal, healthy mono-dominance by _Lactobacillus_ spp. In another
example of CDC-funded work with a simpler human microbiome, Dr. Sam Brownâs
lab at Georgia Tech is examining the microbiota in the lungs of cystic
fibrosis patients to better understand these microbial communities and
subsequently tailor antibiotic treatment to the patient and their
specificdisease state.

Regardless of the body site, individualized treatment strategies across human
microbiomes may be able to enhance treatment effectiveness, improve antibiotic
stewardship, and reduce resistance.

### CDC in Action

Looking forward, the National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Diseases will
continue to fund research, collaborate across the agency, and engage external
stakeholders to increase understanding of the microbiome for precision public
health. We are initiating cross-Agency dialogue on the relevance of the human
microbiome in multiple areas, such as diagnostics for infectious and chronic
diseases, and further evaluating the role of the microbiome in public health
surveillance, research, and prevention.

### Definitions:

**Live biotherapeutic** : A biological product that:

1) contains live organisms, such as bacteria

2) is applicable to the prevention, treatment, or cure of a disease or
condition of human beings

3) is not a vaccine (FDA PDF 174KB)

**Prebiotics** : Nondigestible food components that selectively stimulate the
growth or activity of desirableÂ microorganisms (NIH)

**Probiotics:** Live microorganisms which when administered in adequate
amounts confer a health benefit on the host (WHO PDF 54.2KB)

Posted on March 31, 2020 by Melia Haile, Alison Laufer Halpin, Christopher
Elkins, and Clifford McDonald, Division of Healthcare Quality Promotion,
NCEZID; Muin J. Khoury, Office of Genomics and Precision Public Health, Office
of Science, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia

Categories genomics, precision public health

Tags microbiome

* * *

### Post a Comment

###  Cancel Reply

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment

All comments posted become a part of the public domain, and users are
responsible for their comments. This is a moderated site and your comments
will be reviewed before they are posted. Read more about our comment policy »

Name *

Email *

Current ye@r *

Leave this field empty

#### Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Enter Email Address What's this?Submit What's this? Submit Button

### About this Site

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Disclaimers

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ePub file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RIS file

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Page last reviewed:March 31, 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Page last updated:March 31, 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Content source: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Office of Genomics and Precision Public Health

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * YouTube

![Department of Health and Human
Services](/TemplatePackage/3.0/images/hhs.png)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ###### About CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Employment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Newsroom
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Training/Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC's Organization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mission and Vision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Using this Site
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ###### Legal

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Link to Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Accessibility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * No FEAR Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Inspector General
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * USA.gov
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * ###### Contact CDC

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

1600 Clifton Road Atlanta, GA 30329-4027 USA

800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636)

Contact CDC-INFO

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

