

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Asthma

Section Navigation

CDC Home

            * Facebook
            * Twitter
            * LinkedIn
            * Email
            * Syndicate

# Asthma

Minus

Related Pages

alert icon

Coronavirus Disease-2019 (COVID-19) and People with Asthma

Asthma is a disease that affects your lungs. It causes repeated episodes of
wheezing, breathlessness, chest tightness, and nighttime or early morning
coughing. Asthma can be controlled by taking medicine and avoiding the
triggers that can cause an attack. You must also remove the triggers in your
environment that can make your asthma worse.

CDC's National Asthma Control Program works to help Americans with asthma
achieve better health and improved quality of life. The program funds states,
school programs, and non-government organizations to help them improve
surveillance of asthma, train health professionals, educate individuals with
asthma and their families, and explain asthma to the public.

![Twitter icon](/asthma/images/twitter_icon.jpg)

Follow @CDCasthma on Twitter to learn more about helping people with asthma
live healthier lives by gaining control over their asthma.

![Diagrams projecting from tablet](/asthma/images/data-visualization-
homepage-675x370.jpg)

See our new data visualization

Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO)

CDC is pleased to announce availability of Fiscal Year 2020 funds through
Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) #CDC-RFA-EH20-2002, "Promoting Asthma
Friendly Environments Through Partnerships and Collaborations."external icon
The purpose of this NOFO is to promote evidence-based asthma strategies and
interventions through partnerships and collaborations. Recipients will develop
partnerships and collaborations using health education and communication
strategies that will result in measurable impacts.  These strategies are
outlined in the CDC asthma technical package, EXHALEpdf icon.

CDC will conduct an informational conference call regarding the NOFO on March
23, 2020 at 2:00 p.m., U.S. Eastern Standard Time. The call-in information is:
(877) 954-4821 Passcode: 57457322#. Questions and responses from this
conference call will be posted on this site after the call.

book icon

Learn How to Control Asthma

medical icon

CDC's National Asthma Control Program

chart icon

Data, Statistics, and Surveillance

tools icon

Resources for Health Professionals and Schools

clipboard icon

Evaluation

building icon

Agencies Working on Asthma

Page last reviewed: March 17, 2020

Content source: National Center for Environmental Health

home Asthma

            * Learn How to Control Asthmaplus icon
              * Asthma and Severe Weather
              * Brochures, Fact Sheets, & Action Plans
              * Guidance on Spirometry
              * Parents
              * Children
              * Triggersplus icon
                * Indoors
                * In the Workplace
                * Outdoors
              * Managementplus icon
                * Coronavirus (COVID-19)
                * Asthma Action Plan
                * Flu Shots
                * How to Use your Asthma Inhaler
                * Videos and Audio Podcasts
                * Controlling Asthma in Schools
                * Sample Newsletter
                * Sample Press Release
            * National Asthma Control Programplus icon
              * America Breathing Easier
              * CCARE
              * Guide for State Programs
              * Interventionsplus icon
                * Community GuideâEvidence-based
                * Potentially Effective Interventions
                * Background
                * Methodology
                * Results
                * Case Studies
                * Bibliography
                * Adults â Homeplus icon
                  * Adults â Hospital Emergency Departments
                  * Adults â Hospital Inpatients
                  * Adults â Medical clinics/physiciansâ office
                  * Adults â Pharmacies
                  * Adults â Worksite
                  * Adults â Other
                * Children â Homeplus icon
                  * Children â Hospital emergency departments
                  * Children â Hospital inpatients
                  * Children â Medical clinics/physiciansâ office
                  * Children â Schools
                  * Children â Other
                * Mixed Age Groups â Homeplus icon
                  * Mixed Age Groups â Medical clinics/physiciansâ office
                  * Mixed Age Groups â Pharmacies
                * Pregnant Women â Homeplus icon
                  * Pregnant Women â Medical clinics/physiciansâ office
                * Health care providers â Medical clinics/physiciansâ officeplus icon
                  * Health care providers â Other
                * Parents â Home
            * Breathing Easier Success Stories
            * State and City Asthma Contacts and Programs
            * Historical Information:Â Asthma at a Glance 2002-2010plus icon
              * 2010 At A Glanceplus icon
                * Asthma Control
                * CDCâs National Asthma Control Program
                * Asthma Control Program Highlights
                * Future Directions
              * 2007 At A Glanceplus icon
                * Asthma Control Overview
                * CDCâs National Asthma Control Program
                * Asthma Control Program Highlights
                * FY 2006 Activity Highlights
                * Future Directions
              * 2005 At A Glanceplus icon
                * Asthma Control Overview
                * CDCâs National Asthma Control Program
                * Asthma Control Program Highlights
                * Activity Highlights
                * Future Directions
              * 2003 At A Glanceplus icon
                * Asthma Control Overview
                * CDCâs National Asthma Control Program
                * Asthma Control Program Highlights
                * State Activity Highlights
                * Future Directions
              * 2002 At A Glanceplus icon
                * Asthma Control Overview
                * CDCâs National Asthma Control Program
                * Asthma Control Program Highlights
                * State Activity Highlights
                * Future Directions
            * Evaluationplus icon
              * Evaluation Guide
              * Evaluation Webinarsplus icon
                * 1\. Avoiding Evaluation Roadblocks
                * 1A. Focus On: Walking Through the Steps and Standards
                * 2\. Getting Started
                * 3\. Describing and Focusing
                * 3A. Focus On: Thinking About Design
                * 4\. Gathering and Using Data
                * 4A. Focus On: Data Collection Choices
                * 4B. Focus on Using Mixed Methods
                * 5\. Purpose Informs Design
              * Other Evaluation Resourcesplus icon
                * Tool for Assessing Asthma Referral Systems (TAARS)
            * Resources for Health Professionals and Schoolsplus icon
              * Health Care Professionalsplus icon
                * Got asthma? Get your flu shots!
              * Public Health Professionalsplus icon
                * Asthma: A Presentation of Asthma Management and Prevention  
plus icon

                  * Preface
                  * Glossary
                  * Resources
              * School and Childcare Providersplus icon
                * Asthma Control for Preschoolers
              * CDC Publications on Asthma
            * Data, Statistics, and Surveillanceplus icon
              * Data Visualizationsplus icon
                * Asthma Prevalence
                * Health Outcomes
                * Healthcare Use
                * Mortality
              * Most Recent Asthma Dataplus icon
                * Most Recent National Asthma Data
                * Most Recent State or Territory Asthma Data
                * Archived Most Recent Asthma Data
              * Asthma Surveillance dataplus icon
                * NHIS Asthma Prevalence Dataplus icon
                  * 2018 Data
                  * 2017 Data
                  * 2016 Data
                  * 2015 Data
                  * 2014 Data
                  * 2013 Data
                  * 2012 Data
                  * 2011 Data
                  * 2010 Data
                  * 2009 Data
                  * 2008 Data
                  * 2007 Data
                  * 2006 Data
                  * 2005 Data
                  * 2004 Data
                  * 2003 Data
                  * 2002 Data
                  * 2001 Data
                * Health Care Use
                * BRFSS Asthma Prevalence Data
                * Asthma Call Back survey
              * AsthmaStatsplus icon
                * Asthma Attacks among People with Current Asthma, 2014â2017
                * Uncontrolled Asthma among Adults, 2016
                * Uncontrolled Asthma among Children, 2012â2014
                * Asthma-related physician office visits
                * Asthma and Fair or Poor Health
                * Asthma as the Underlying Cause of Death
                * Flu Vaccination among Adults with Current Asthma 
                * Flu Vaccination among Children with Current Asthma
                * Usual Place for Medical Care among Children
                * Number of Visits to a Health Care Provider(s) among Children
                * Health Care Coverage among Children
                * Asthma-related Missed School Days among Children aged 5â17 Years
                * Asthma Severity among Adults with Current Asthma
                * Asthma Severity among Children with Current Asthma
                * Overuse of quick-relief medication among persons with active asthma
                * Use of long-term control medication among persons with active asthma
                * Uncontrolled Asthma among Persons with Current Asthma
                * Asthma and Obesity
                * Percentage of People with Asthma who Smoke
                * Insurance coverage and barriers to care for people with asthma
              * NACP Grantee Profile
              * Asthma Prevalence in the U.S.: Slide set [PPTX â 3.8 MB]
              * Asthma Questions by Data Source
              * Data Analysis Guidance
              * Historical BRFSS Adult Asthma Moduleplus icon
                * Adult Asthma Module 2007
                * Adult Asthma Module 2006
                * Adult Asthma Module 2005
                * Adult Asthma Module 2004
                * Adult Asthma Module 2003
                * Adult Asthma Module 2002
              * NCHS Asthma FastStats
            * Agencies Working on Asthmaplus icon
              * Legislation and Policy
            * Reports and Publicationsplus icon
              * Measures to Identify and Track Racial Disparities in Childhood Asthmaplus icon
                * Control
                * Asthma Control
                * Management
                * Prevalence and Outcome Measures
                * Risk Factors
                * Table 10: Examples of Some Possible Response Scenarios
                * Technical Appendix
                * Survey Resources
                * Definition of Terms
            * Multimedia Messages
            * Asthma and Community Health Branch

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

            * About CDC
            * Jobs
            * Funding
            * Policies
            * File Viewers & Players

            * Privacy
            * FOIA
            * No Fear Act
            * OIG
            * Nondiscrimination
            * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

            * Facebook
            * Twitter
            * Youtube
            * Instagram
  

            * Syndicate
            * CDC TV
            * RSS
            * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

            * Facebook
            * Twitter
            * LinkedIn
            * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

            * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
            * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
            * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
            * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

