http://wwwnc.cdc.gov/eidLink: http://wwwnc.cdc.gov/eid    
                Description: Volume 26, Number 4âApril 2020 - Emerging Infectious Diseases journal - CDC    
                Keywords: 15B/C, 18S ribosomal DNA, about the cover, acute gastroenteritis, Africa, age group, AMR, Andes virus, antibodies, antibodies Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever virus, antimicrobial resistance, arbovirus infection, arboviruses, Argentina, art and medicine, art science connection, arthritis, Ascaridida infections, Ascaridida infestation, Asian badger, Aspergillus fumigatus, asylum seekers, avian eyeworm, azithromycin, azole resistance, azole use, Babesia microti, Babesiosis, bacteria, bacteria shigellosis, bacterial infections, Bartonella, Bauchi State, Baylisascaris procyonis, Belgium, bloodstream infections, Borrelia persica, Borrelia species, Brazil, Brucella melitensis, bubonic plague, burden of disease, California, canine trombiculiasis, carbapenemase, cattle, CC398, CCHF, CCHFV, cdr1B, central Asia, changing perspectives, chiggers, chikungunya, China, chipmunk fleas, clinical isolates, co-infection, Colorado, companion animal, conference, confirmed cases, control, control programs, Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever, Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever virus, crocodiles, Crocodylus niloticus, cutaneous nematode infection, cyp51A, deaths, decreased susceptibility, decreased susceptibility to azithromycin, dengue, Dengue fever, dengue virus, Dermacentor, dermatitis, different angles, Dirkmeia churashimaensis, disease control, disease ecology, disease outbreaks, dog, dogs, DSA, Ebola virus, ecology, economic burden, emerging infectious diseases, emerging neurotropic flavivirus, enteric infections, enterovirus A71, enterovirus A71 (EV-A71), enterovirus vaccines, environments, epidemic, epidemiological surveillance, epidemiology, Eritrea, EV-A71, extensively drug-resistant, Flaviviridae, fleas, fluorescence, food safety, foodborne illness, France, fungi, fungus, galactomannan, Gallibacterium anatis, genome sequencing, Germany, gram-negative bacteria, Guaroa virus, hantavirus, hantavirus pulmonary syndrome, health status, health-related quality of life, hemorrhagic fever, herpes simplex virus, HIV, HMG-CoA reductase, hostâparasite, hostâpathogen, HRQOL, HSV-2, Huaiyangshan banyangvirus, human, human-biting ticks, humans, IgG2 immunodeficiency, immigration, inactivated poliovirus vaccine, incidence, Index Medicus, India, infection, infection prevalence, infections, infectious bronchopneumonia, infectious disease specialists, infestation, influenza, influenza virus, introduced species, invasive pneumococcal disease, invasive pulmonary aspergillosis, Ixodes, Japan, Justinian I, knowledge, Laboratory diagnosis, lagomorpha, larvae, Lassa fever, Lassa virus, latent tuberculosis infection, life quality, livestock, livestock-associated methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, logistic models, Luxembourg, malaria, MALDI-TOF, MALDI-TOF MS, mass spectrometry, Mauritania, Mayotte, Meles leucurus, men who have sex with men, meningitis, men-who-have-sex-with-men, meropenem resistance, Mexico, microscopy, Minnesota, mites, molecular diagnostics, Monkeypox, monkeypox virus, Mosaic of Justinianus I, mosquitoborne disease, mosquito-borne disease, mosquitoborne diseases, mosquito-borne diseases, mosquitoes, MRSA, MSM, multidrug-resistant, multiresistant, needlestick injuries, nematodes, nematodiasis, neonatal intensive care unit, Neotrombicula inopinata, Netherlands, neurological disorders, neutralizing antibodies, next-generation sequencing, Nigeria, nosocomial, NS5, One Health, online food delivery, OPV, oral poliovirus vaccine, Orthobunyavirus, orthopoxvirus, outbreak, Oxyspirura, Oxyspirura larvae, Pakistan, Panton-Valentine leukocidin, Panton-Valentine leukocidine, parasites, parasitic diseases, PCV-13, persistent symptoms, person-to-person transmission, Peru, Peruvian Amazon, Phenuiviridae, plague, Plasmodium vivax, pneumonia, poliovirus, pregnancy, prevalence, pruritic lesions, quality of life, rabbit fleas, raccoons, rapid test, rats, RBLM, recurrent benign lymphocytic meningitis, respiratory diseases, Rickettsia, Rickettsia rickettsii, rickettsial infections, Rift Valley fever, Rift Valley fever virus, risk profiling, RMSF, Rocio virus, Rocio virus SPH 34675, Rocky Mountain spotted fever, rodents, ruminants, Sabin strain-derived IPV, Sabin strain-derived IPV (sIPV), Salmonella enterica serovar Enteritidis, screening, screening program, sepsis, serology, serotype, severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome, severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome virus, severe influenza, sexually transmitted bacterial diseases, sexually transmitted diseases, sexually transmitted infections (STIs), SFTS, SFTSV, Shigella, shigellosis, shotgun metagenomics, Sierra Leone, Sierra Nevada, Sierra Nevada chipmunk fleas, Singapore, Siphonaptera, sIPV, skin infections, Somalia, Spain, SPH 34675, Sri Lanka, ST1232, STDs, Streptococcus pneumoniae, surveillance, Switzerland, symptoms, Taiwan, Tajikistan, Tamias alpinus, Tamias speciosus, TB, therapy failure, tick control, Tickborne disease, tickborne diseases, Tick-borne relapsing fever, tickborne virus, ticks, TR34/L98H, TR46/Y121F/T289A, transmission, travel, Trombicula batatas, trombiculiasis, Trombiculidae, tuberculosis and other mycobacteria, United Kingdom, United States, vaccines, vectorborne disease, vector-borne diseases, vector-borne infections, Vietnam, virologic surveillance, viruses, Washington, West Africa, West Nile fever, West Nile virus, whole genome sequencing, whole-genome sequencing, yeast, Yersinia pestis, Yosemite National Park, Zambia, Zika, zoonoses, zoonosis    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

A-Z Index

Ã

Submit

Search

Submit

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Search Dropdown

Submit

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Emerging Infectious Disease journal ISSN: 1080-6059

Section Navigation

CDC Home

![](/TemplatePackage/contrib/icons/social/round/rss-round.svg) Expedited
Articles

Identifying Locations with Possible Undetected Imported Severe Acute
Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 Cases by Using Importation Predictions

P. De Salazar et al.

July 2020

* * *

Policy Decisions and Use of Information Technology to Fight 2019 Novel
Coronavirus Disease, Taiwan

C. Lin et al.

July 2020

* * *

Asymptomatic and Human-to-Human Transmission of SARS-CoV-2 in a 2-Family
Cluster, Xuzhou, China

C. Li et al.

July 2020

* * *

Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 RNA Detected in Blood
Donations

L. Chang et al.

July 2020

* * *

High Contagiousness and Rapid Spread of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome
Coronavirus 2

S. Sanche et al.

July 2020

* * *

Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 Shedding by Travelers,
Vietnam, 2020

T. Le et al.

July 2020

* * *

COVID-19 Outbreak Associated with Air Conditioning in Restaurant, Guangzhou,
China, 2020

J. Lu et al.

July 2020

# Articles from _Emerging Infectious Diseases_

Current Issue Early Release CME Articles Article Search

![Issue Cover for Volume 26, Number 4âApril
2020](/eid/images/coverfile_medium-vol_26-num_4.jpg)

#### Volume 26, Number 4âApril 2020

[PDF - 37.97 MB - 198 pages]

Last Issue - Volume 26, Number 3âMarch 2020
![presentation_01](/TemplatePackage/contrib/icons/standard/audio_02.svg)
Podcasts

In This Issue

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Perspective 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Synopses 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Research 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Dispatches 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Research Letters 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About the Cover 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Etymologia 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Conference Summaries 

##### Perspective

* * *

**Stemming the Rising Tide of Human-Biting Ticks and Tickborne Diseases,
United States ** [PDF - 1.27 MB - 7 pages]

L. Eisen ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View Abstract
![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This Article
![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Ticks and tickborne diseases are increasingly problematic. There have been
positive developments that should result in improved strategies and better
tools to suppress ticks, reduce human tick bites, and roll back tickborne
diseases. However, we equally need to address the question of who is
responsible for implementing the solutions. The current model of individual
responsibility for tick control evolved from a scenario in the 1990s focusing
strongly on exposure to blacklegged ticks and Lyme disease spirochetes in
peridomestic settings of the northeastern United States. Today, the threat
posed by human-biting ticks is more widespread across the eastern United
States, increasingly complex (multiple tick species and >10 notable tickborne
pathogens), and, across tick species, more spatially diffuse (including
backyards, neighborhood green spaces, and public recreation areas). To
mitigate tick-associated negative societal effects, we must consider shifting
the responsibility for tick control to include both individual persons and
professionally staffed tick-management programs.

EID | Eisen L. Stemming the Rising Tide of Human-Biting Ticks and Tickborne
Diseases, United States. Emerg Infect Dis. 2020;26(4):641-647.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.191629  
---|---  
AMA | Eisen L. Stemming the Rising Tide of Human-Biting Ticks and Tickborne
Diseases, United States. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_. 2020;26(4):641-647.
doi:10.3201/eid2604.191629.  
APA | Eisen, L. (2020). Stemming the Rising Tide of Human-Biting Ticks and
Tickborne Diseases, United States. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _26_ (4),
641-647. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.191629.  
  
##### Synopses

* * *

Medscape CME Activity

**Ecology and Epidemiology of Tickborne Pathogens, Washington, USA,
2011â2016 ** [PDF - 2.68 MB - 10 pages]

E. A. Dykstra et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Tickborne diseases are rare in Washington, USA, and the ecology of these
pathogens is poorly understood. We integrated surveillance data from humans
and ticks to better describe their epidemiology and ecology. During
2011â2016, a total of 202 tickborne disease cases were reported in
Washington residents. Of these, 68 (34%) were autochthonous, including cases
of Lyme disease, Rocky Mountain spotted fever, tickborne relapsing fever, and
tularemia. During May 2011âDecember 2016, we collected 977 host-seeking
ticks, including _Ixodes pacificus_ , _I. angustus_ , _I. spinipalpis_ , _I.
auritulus_ , _Dermacentor andersoni_ , and _D. variabilis_ ticks. The
prevalence of _Borrelia burgdorferi_ sensu stricto in _I. pacificus_ ticks was
4.0%; of _B. burgdorferi_ sensu lato, 3.8%; of _B. miyamotoi_ , 4.4%; and of
_Anaplasma phagocytophilum_ , 1.9%. We did not detect _Rickettsia rickettsii_
in either _Dermacentor_ species. Case-patient histories and detection of
pathogens in field-collected ticks indicate that several tickborne pathogens
are endemic to Washington.

EID | Dykstra EA, Oltean HN, Kangiser D, Marsden-Haug N, Rich SM, Xu G, et al.
Ecology and Epidemiology of Tickborne Pathogens, Washington, USA, 2011â2016.
Emerg Infect Dis. 2020;26(4):648-657.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.191382  
---|---  
AMA | Dykstra EA, Oltean HN, Kangiser D, et al. Ecology and Epidemiology of
Tickborne Pathogens, Washington, USA, 2011â2016. _Emerging Infectious
Diseases_. 2020;26(4):648-657. doi:10.3201/eid2604.191382.  
APA | Dykstra, E. A., Oltean, H. N., Kangiser, D., Marsden-Haug, N., Rich, S.
M., Xu, G....Eisen, R. J. (2020). Ecology and Epidemiology of Tickborne
Pathogens, Washington, USA, 2011â2016. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _26_
(4), 648-657. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.191382.  
  
* * *

**Imported Arbovirus Infections in Spain, 2009â2018 ** [PDF - 962 KB - 9
pages]

F. F. Norman et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

To determine the epidemiologic and clinical characteristics of patients in
Spain with imported arbovirus infections, we analyzed 22,655 records from a
collaborative network for January 2009âDecember 2018. Among 861 arbovirus
infections, 845 were monoinfections (456 [53%] dengue, 280 [32.5%]
chikungunya, 109 [12.7%] Zika) and 16 (1.8%) were co-infections. Most patients
were travelers (56.3%) or immigrants returning to Spain after visiting friends
or relatives (31.3%). Median patient age was 37 years; most (62.3%) were women
and some (28.6%) had received pretravel advice. Only 12 patients were
immunosuppressed. Six cases (all dengue monoinfections, none in
immunosuppressed patients) were severe. Since 2014, nondengue arbovirus
infections increased; until 2016, chikungunya and Zika were most common.
Imported arbovirus infections (mostly dengue) were frequently diagnosed,
although increased chikungunya and Zika virus infections coincided with their
introduction and spread in the Americas. A large proportion of cases occurred
in women of childbearing age, some despite receipt of pretravel advice.

EID | Norman FF, HenrÃ­quez-Camacho C, DÃ­az-Menendez M, Chamorro S, Pou D,
Molina I, et al. Imported Arbovirus Infections in Spain, 2009â2018. Emerg
Infect Dis. 2020;26(4):658-666. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190443  
---|---  
AMA | Norman FF, HenrÃ­quez-Camacho C, DÃ­az-Menendez M, et al. Imported
Arbovirus Infections in Spain, 2009â2018. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_.
2020;26(4):658-666. doi:10.3201/eid2604.190443.  
APA | Norman, F. F., HenrÃ­quez-Camacho, C., DÃ­az-Menendez, M., Chamorro, S.,
Pou, D., Molina, I....LÃ³pez-Velez, R. (2020). Imported Arbovirus Infections
in Spain, 2009â2018. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _26_ (4), 658-666.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190443.  
  
* * *

**Decreased Susceptibility to Azithromycin in Clinical _Shigella_ Isolates
Associated with HIV and Sexually Transmitted Bacterial Diseases, Minnesota,
USA, 2012â2015 ** [PDF - 492 KB - 8 pages]

D. Eikmeier et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Shigellosis outbreaks caused by _Shigella_ with decreased susceptibility to
azithromycin (DSA- _Shigella_ ) among men who have sex with men (MSM) have
been reported worldwide. We describe sexual health indicators and
antimicrobial drug resistance for shigellosis cases in Minnesota, USA. We
analyzed a sample of isolates received during 2012â2015 and cross-referenced
cases with the Minnesota Department of Health Sexually Transmitted Disease
Database to ascertain patientsâ HIV status and recent chlamydia, gonorrhea,
and syphilis infections. Of 691 _Shigella_ isolates, 46 (7%) were DSA-
_Shigella_ ; 91% of DSA- _Shigella_ patients were men, of whom 60% were living
with HIV. Among men, those with DSA- _Shigella_ infection had greater odds of
living with HIV, identifying as MSM, or having a recent diagnosis of a
sexually transmitted disease. DSA- _Shigella_ was associated with MSM, HIV
infection, and recent sexually transmitted disease. To decrease spread of DSA-
_Shigella_ , interventions targeted at communities at high risk are needed.

EID | Eikmeier D, Talley P, Bowen A, Leano F, Dobbins G, Jawahir S, et al.
Decreased Susceptibility to Azithromycin in Clinical Shigella Isolates
Associated with HIV and Sexually Transmitted Bacterial Diseases, Minnesota,
USA, 2012â2015. Emerg Infect Dis. 2020;26(4):667-674.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.191031  
---|---  
AMA | Eikmeier D, Talley P, Bowen A, et al. Decreased Susceptibility to
Azithromycin in Clinical Shigella Isolates Associated with HIV and Sexually
Transmitted Bacterial Diseases, Minnesota, USA, 2012â2015. _Emerging
Infectious Diseases_. 2020;26(4):667-674. doi:10.3201/eid2604.191031.  
APA | Eikmeier, D., Talley, P., Bowen, A., Leano, F., Dobbins, G., Jawahir,
S....Smith, K. (2020). Decreased Susceptibility to Azithromycin in Clinical
Shigella Isolates Associated with HIV and Sexually Transmitted Bacterial
Diseases, Minnesota, USA, 2012â2015. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _26_
(4), 667-674. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.191031.  
  
* * *

**High Incidence of Active Tuberculosis in Asylum Seekers from Eritrea and
Somalia in the First 5 Years after Arrival in the Netherlands ** [PDF - 651 KB
- 7 pages]

J. van den Boogaard et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-
expand.gif) View Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif)
Cite This Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this
Article

Three quarters of tuberculosis (TB) patients in the Netherlands are foreign-
born; 26% are from Eritrea or Somalia. We analyzed TB incidence rates in
asylum seekers from Eritrea and Somalia in the first 5 years after arrival in
the Netherlands (2013â2017) and performed survival analysis with Cox
proportional hazards regression to analyze the effect of age and sex on the
risk for TB. TB incidence remained high 5 years after arrival in asylum
seekers from Eritrea (309 cases/100,000 person-years) and Somalia (81
cases/100,000 person-years). Age >18 years was associated with a higher risk
for TB in asylum seekers from Eritrea (3.4 times higher) and Somalia (3.7
times higher), and male sex was associated with a 1.6 times higher risk for TB
in asylum seekers from Eritrea. Screening and treating asylum seekers from
high-incidence areas for latent TB infection upon arrival would further reduce
TB incidence in the Netherlands.

EID | van den Boogaard J, Slump E, Schimmel HJ, van der Hoek W, van den Hof S,
de Vries G. High Incidence of Active Tuberculosis in Asylum Seekers from
Eritrea and Somalia in the First 5 Years after Arrival in the Netherlands.
Emerg Infect Dis. 2020;26(4):675-681.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190123  
---|---  
AMA | van den Boogaard J, Slump E, Schimmel HJ, et al. High Incidence of
Active Tuberculosis in Asylum Seekers from Eritrea and Somalia in the First 5
Years after Arrival in the Netherlands. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_.
2020;26(4):675-681. doi:10.3201/eid2604.190123.  
APA | van den Boogaard, J., Slump, E., Schimmel, H. J., van der Hoek, W., van
den Hof, S., & de Vries, G. (2020). High Incidence of Active Tuberculosis in
Asylum Seekers from Eritrea and Somalia in the First 5 Years after Arrival in
the Netherlands. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _26_ (4), 675-681.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190123.  
  
* * *

**Severe Dengue Epidemic, Sri Lanka, 2017 ** [PDF - 2.19 MB - 9 pages]

H. A. Tissera et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

In 2017, a dengue epidemic of unexpected magnitude occurred in Sri Lanka. A
total of 186,101 suspected cases and 440 dengue-related deaths occurred. We
conducted a comprehensive analysis of this epidemic by comparing national
surveillance data for 2017 with data from the preceding 5 years. In all Sri
Lanka districts, dengue incidence in 2017 increased significantly over
incidence during the previous 5 years. Older schoolchildren and young adults
were more clinically symptomatic than those at extremes of age. Limited
virologic surveillance showed the dominant circulating variant was dengue
virus type 2 cosmopolitan genotype in the most affected district. One quarter
of total annual cases were reported 5 weeks after the southwest monsoon
started. Changes in vector abundance were not predictive of the increased
incidence. Direct government expenditures on dengue control activities in 2017
were US $12.7 million. The lessons learned from this outbreak are useful for
other tropical nations facing increasing dengue incidence.

EID | Tissera HA, Jayamanne B, Raut R, Janaki S, Tozan Y, Samaraweera PC, et
al. Severe Dengue Epidemic, Sri Lanka, 2017. Emerg Infect Dis.
2020;26(4):682-691. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190435  
---|---  
AMA | Tissera HA, Jayamanne B, Raut R, et al. Severe Dengue Epidemic, Sri
Lanka, 2017. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_. 2020;26(4):682-691.
doi:10.3201/eid2604.190435.  
APA | Tissera, H. A., Jayamanne, B., Raut, R., Janaki, S., Tozan, Y.,
Samaraweera, P. C....Fernando, S. D. (2020). Severe Dengue Epidemic, Sri
Lanka, 2017. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _26_ (4), 682-691.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190435.  
  
* * *

**Severe Fever with Thrombocytopenia Syndrome, Japan, 2013â2017 ** [PDF -
680 KB - 8 pages]

Y. Kobayashi et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

We conducted an epidemiologic study of severe fever with thrombocytopenia
syndrome (SFTS) in Japan during 2013â2017. Of 303 cases reported during that
period, 133 (44%) were included in this study. The median time between onset
of illness and diagnosis of SFTS shortened, from 11.5 to 3.0 days, but the
case-fatality rate remained high, at 27%. In 64 patients (48%), a close
contact with companion animals was reported within 2 weeks of disease onset.
Of these 64 patients, 40 were surveyed further, and we confirmed that 3 had
direct contact with body fluids of ill companion animals; 2 had direct contact
with the saliva of an ill feral cat or pet dog. These patients reported no
history of tick bite, suggesting that ill companion animals might be a source
of SFTS virus transmission. Direct contact with the body fluids of ill
companion animals should be avoided.

EID | Kobayashi Y, Kato H, Yamagishi T, Shimada T, Matsui T, Yoshikawa T, et
al. Severe Fever with Thrombocytopenia Syndrome, Japan, 2013â2017. Emerg
Infect Dis. 2020;26(4):692-699. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.191011  
---|---  
AMA | Kobayashi Y, Kato H, Yamagishi T, et al. Severe Fever with
Thrombocytopenia Syndrome, Japan, 2013â2017. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_.
2020;26(4):692-699. doi:10.3201/eid2604.191011.  
APA | Kobayashi, Y., Kato, H., Yamagishi, T., Shimada, T., Matsui, T.,
Yoshikawa, T....Oishi, K. (2020). Severe Fever with Thrombocytopenia Syndrome,
Japan, 2013â2017. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _26_ (4), 692-699.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.191011.  
  
##### Research

* * *

**Comprehensive Profiling of Zika Virus Risk with Natural and Artificial
Mitigating Strategies, United States ** [PDF - 5.24 MB - 11 pages]

M. J. Mina et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Zika virus is transitioning to become a long-term public health challenge, and
countries should remain informed of the risk for emergence. We developed a
stochastic epidemiologic model to profile risk for Zika virus emergence,
including trimester-specific fetal risk across time, in all 3,208 counties in
the United States, including Puerto Rico. Validation against known
transmission in North America demonstrated accuracy to predict epidemic
dynamics and absolute case counts across scales (R2Â =Â 0.98). We found that,
although sporadic single transmission events could occur in most US counties,
outbreaks will likely be restricted to the Gulf Coast region and to late
spring through autumn. Seasonal fluctuations in birth rates will confer
natural population-level protection against early-trimester infections.
Overall, outbreak control will be more effective and efficient than
prevention, and vaccination will be most effective at >70% coverage. Our
county-level risk profiles should serve as a critical resource for resource
allocation.

EID | Mina MJ, Guterman L, Allen KE, Omer SB. Comprehensive Profiling of Zika
Virus Risk with Natural and Artificial Mitigating Strategies, United States.
Emerg Infect Dis. 2020;26(4):700-710.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.181739  
---|---  
AMA | Mina MJ, Guterman L, Allen KE, et al. Comprehensive Profiling of Zika
Virus Risk with Natural and Artificial Mitigating Strategies, United States.
_Emerging Infectious Diseases_. 2020;26(4):700-710.
doi:10.3201/eid2604.181739.  
APA | Mina, M. J., Guterman, L., Allen, K. E., & Omer, S. B. (2020).
Comprehensive Profiling of Zika Virus Risk with Natural and Artificial
Mitigating Strategies, United States. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _26_
(4), 700-710. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.181739.  
  
* * *

**Genomic Insight into the Spread of Meropenem-Resistant _Streptococcus
pneumoniae_ Spain-ST81, Taiwan ** [PDF - 1.11 MB - 10 pages]

Y. Chen et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Incidence of invasive pneumococcal disease caused by antimicrobial-resistant
_Streptococcus pneumoniae_ types not included in pneumococcal conjugate
vaccines has increased, including a penicillin- and meropenem-resistant
serotype 15A-ST63 clone in Japan. During 2013â2017, we collected 206
invasive pneumococcal isolates in Taiwan for penicillin and meropenem
susceptibility testing. We found serotypes 15B/C-ST83 and 15A-ST63 were the
most prevalent penicillin- and meropenem-resistant clones. A transformation
study confirmed that penicillin-binding protein (PBP) 2b was the primary
meropenem resistance determinant, and PBP1a was essential for high-level
resistance. The rate of serotype 15B/C-ST83 increased during the study. All
15B/C-ST83 isolates showed an _ermB_ macrolide resistance genotype. Prediction
analysis of recombination sites revealed 12 recombination regions in
15B/C-ST83 compared with the _S. pneumoniae_ Spain23F-ST81 genome.
Pneumococcal clones rapidly recombine to acquire survival advantages and
undergo local expansion under the selective pressure exerted by vaccines and
antimicrobial drugs. The spread of 15B/C-ST83 is alarming for countries with
high antimicrobial pressure.

EID | Chen Y, Hsieh Y, Gong Y, Liao W, Li S, Chang I, et al. Genomic Insight
into the Spread of Meropenem-Resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae Spain23F-ST81,
Taiwan. Emerg Infect Dis. 2020;26(4):711-720.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190717  
---|---  
AMA | Chen Y, Hsieh Y, Gong Y, et al. Genomic Insight into the Spread of
Meropenem-Resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae Spain23F-ST81, Taiwan. _Emerging
Infectious Diseases_. 2020;26(4):711-720. doi:10.3201/eid2604.190717.  
APA | Chen, Y., Hsieh, Y., Gong, Y., Liao, W., Li, S., Chang, I....Huang, Y.
(2020). Genomic Insight into the Spread of Meropenem-Resistant Streptococcus
pneumoniae Spain23F-ST81, Taiwan. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _26_ (4),
711-720. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190717.  
  
* * *

**Isolation of Drug-Resistant _Gallibacterium anatis_ from Calves with
Unresponsive Bronchopneumonia, Belgium ** [PDF - 1.56 MB - 10 pages]

L. Van Driessche et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif)
View Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

_Gallibacterium anatis_ is an opportunistic pathogen, previously associated
with deaths in poultry, domestic birds, and occasionally humans. We obtained
_G. anatis_ isolates from bronchoalveolar lavage samples of 10 calves with
bronchopneumonia unresponsive to antimicrobial therapy. Collected isolates
were multidrug-resistant to extensively drug-resistant, exhibiting resistance
against 5â7 classes of antimicrobial drugs. Whole-genome sequencing revealed
24 different antimicrobial-resistance determinants, including genes not
previously described in the _Gallibacterium_ genus or even the
_Pasteurellaceae_ family, such as _aad_ A23, _bla_ CARB-8, _tet_ (Y), and
_qnr_ D1. Some resistance genes were closely linked in resistance gene
cassettes with either transposases in close proximity or situated on putative
mobile elements or predicted plasmids. Single-nucleotide polymorphism
genotyping revealed large genetic variation between the _G. anatis_ isolates,
including isolates retrieved from the same farm. _G. anatis_ might play a
hitherto unrecognized role as a respiratory pathogen and resistance gene
reservoir in cattle and has unknown zoonotic potential.

EID | Van Driessche L, Vanneste K, Bogaerts B, De Keersmaecker S, Roosens NH,
Haesebrouck F, et al. Isolation of Drug-Resistant Gallibacterium anatis from
Calves with Unresponsive Bronchopneumonia, Belgium. Emerg Infect Dis.
2020;26(4):721-730. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190962  
---|---  
AMA | Van Driessche L, Vanneste K, Bogaerts B, et al. Isolation of Drug-
Resistant Gallibacterium anatis from Calves with Unresponsive
Bronchopneumonia, Belgium. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_. 2020;26(4):721-730.
doi:10.3201/eid2604.190962.  
APA | Van Driessche, L., Vanneste, K., Bogaerts, B., De Keersmaecker, S.,
Roosens, N. H., Haesebrouck, F....Boyen, F. (2020). Isolation of Drug-
Resistant Gallibacterium anatis from Calves with Unresponsive
Bronchopneumonia, Belgium. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _26_ (4), 721-730.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190962.  
  
* * *

**Guaroa Virus and _Plasmodium vivax_ Co-Infections, Peruvian Amazon ** [PDF -
848 KB - 7 pages]

C. Siles et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

During AprilâJune 2014 in a malaria-endemic rural community close to the
city of Iquitos in Peru, we detected evidence of Guaroa virus (GROV) infection
in 14 febrile persons, of whom 6 also had evidence of _Plasmodium vivax_
malaria. Cases were discovered through a long-term febrile illness
surveillance network at local participating health facilities. GROV cases were
identified by using a combination of seroconversion and virus isolation, and
malaria was diagnosed by thick smear and PCR. GROV mono-infections manifested
as nonspecific febrile illness and were clinically indistinguishable from GROV
and _P. vivax_ co-infections. This cluster of cases highlights the potential
for GROV transmission in the rural Peruvian Amazon, particularly in areas
where malaria is endemic. Further study of similar areas of the Amazon may
provide insights into the extent of GROV transmission in the Amazon basin.

EID | Siles C, Elson WH, Vilcarromero S, Morrison AC, Hontz RD, Alava F, et
al. Guaroa Virus and Plasmodium vivax Co-Infections, Peruvian Amazon. Emerg
Infect Dis. 2020;26(4):731-737. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.191104  
---|---  
AMA | Siles C, Elson WH, Vilcarromero S, et al. Guaroa Virus and Plasmodium
vivax Co-Infections, Peruvian Amazon. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_.
2020;26(4):731-737. doi:10.3201/eid2604.191104.  
APA | Siles, C., Elson, W. H., Vilcarromero, S., Morrison, A. C., Hontz, R.
D., Alava, F....Ampuero, J. S. (2020). Guaroa Virus and Plasmodium vivax Co-
Infections, Peruvian Amazon. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _26_ (4),
731-737. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.191104.  
  
* * *

**Intensified Short Symptom Screening Program for Dengue Infection during
Pregnancy, India ** [PDF - 440 KB - 5 pages]

S. Naik et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Mosquitoborne diseases (e.g., malaria, dengue, and chikungunya) are endemic to
India and pose diagnostic challenges during pregnancy. We evaluated an
intensified short symptom screening program in India to diagnose dengue during
pregnancy. During October 2017âJanuary 2018, we screened pregnant women
during antenatal surveillance for symptoms of mosquitoborne diseases (fever
only, fever with conjunctivitis, fever with rash, or all 3 symptoms) within
the previous 15 days. Of 5,843 pregnant women screened, 52 were enrolled and
tested for dengue, chikungunya, and Zika viruses by using a Trioplex real-time
reverse transcription PCR. Of 49 who had complete results, 7 (14%) were dengue
positive. Of these ocular pain was seen in 4 (57%) and conjunctivitis in 7
(100%). Intensified symptom screening using conjunctivitis, in addition to
rash, in pregnant women with fever might improve dengue case detection and can
be included in routine symptom screening during pregnancy.

EID | Naik S, Robinson ML, Alexander M, Chandanwale A, Sambarey P, Kinikar A,
et al. Intensified Short Symptom Screening Program for Dengue Infection during
Pregnancy, India. Emerg Infect Dis. 2020;26(4):738-743.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.191476  
---|---  
AMA | Naik S, Robinson ML, Alexander M, et al. Intensified Short Symptom
Screening Program for Dengue Infection during Pregnancy, India. _Emerging
Infectious Diseases_. 2020;26(4):738-743. doi:10.3201/eid2604.191476.  
APA | Naik, S., Robinson, M. L., Alexander, M., Chandanwale, A., Sambarey, P.,
Kinikar, A....Mathad, J. (2020). Intensified Short Symptom Screening Program
for Dengue Infection during Pregnancy, India. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ ,
_26_ (4), 738-743. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.191476.  
  
##### Dispatches

* * *

**Prevalence of Antibodies to Crimean-Congo Hemorrhagic Fever Virus in
Ruminants, Nigeria, 2015 ** [PDF - 1.07 MB - 4 pages]

D. Oluwayelu et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever virus (CCHFV) is a highly transmissible human
pathogen. Infection is often misdiagnosed, in part because of poor
availability of data in disease-endemic areas. We sampled 150 apparently
healthy ruminants throughout Nigeria for virus seropositivity and detected
virus-specific IgG in cattle (24%) and goats (2%), highlighting the need for
further investigations.

EID | Oluwayelu D, Afrough B, Adebiyi A, Varghese A, Eun-Sil P, Fukushi S, et
al. Prevalence of Antibodies to Crimean-Congo Hemorrhagic Fever Virus in
Ruminants, Nigeria, 2015. Emerg Infect Dis. 2020;26(4):744-747.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190354  
---|---  
AMA | Oluwayelu D, Afrough B, Adebiyi A, et al. Prevalence of Antibodies to
Crimean-Congo Hemorrhagic Fever Virus in Ruminants, Nigeria, 2015. _Emerging
Infectious Diseases_. 2020;26(4):744-747. doi:10.3201/eid2604.190354.  
APA | Oluwayelu, D., Afrough, B., Adebiyi, A., Varghese, A., Eun-Sil, P.,
Fukushi, S....Tomori, O. (2020). Prevalence of Antibodies to Crimean-Congo
Hemorrhagic Fever Virus in Ruminants, Nigeria, 2015. _Emerging Infectious
Diseases_ , _26_ (4), 744-747. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190354.  
  
* * *

**Recurrent Herpes Simplex Virus 2 Lymphocytic Meningitis in Patient with IgG
Subclass 2 Deficiency ** [PDF - 837 KB - 3 pages]

T. Goyal and I. Ali ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

We report a case of a patient with a lifetime history of 8 episodes of
recurrent lymphocytic meningitis. Our findings suggest that susceptibility to
recurrent lymphocytic meningitis might be caused by low serum IgG subclass 2
immunodeficiency.

EID | Goyal T, Ali I. Recurrent Herpes Simplex Virus 2 Lymphocytic Meningitis
in Patient with IgG Subclass 2 Deficiency. Emerg Infect Dis.
2020;26(4):748-750. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190406  
---|---  
AMA | Goyal T, Ali I. Recurrent Herpes Simplex Virus 2 Lymphocytic Meningitis
in Patient with IgG Subclass 2 Deficiency. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_.
2020;26(4):748-750. doi:10.3201/eid2604.190406.  
APA | Goyal, T., & Ali, I. (2020). Recurrent Herpes Simplex Virus 2
Lymphocytic Meningitis in Patient with IgG Subclass 2 Deficiency. _Emerging
Infectious Diseases_ , _26_ (4), 748-750.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190406.  
  
* * *

**Health-Related Quality of Life after Dengue Fever, Morelos, Mexico,
2016â2017 ** [PDF - 549 KB - 5 pages]

A. Schulte et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

We adapted the EQ-5D-3L questionnaire and visual analog scale to assess
health-related quality of life (HRQOL) and persistent symptoms in 79 patients
with laboratory-confirmed dengue in Morelos, Mexico. The lowest HRQOLs were
0.53 and 38.1 (febrile phase). Patients recovered baseline HRQOL in â2
months.

EID | Schulte A, Weber I, Tiga-Loza D, Amaya Larios IY, Shepard DS, Tschampl
CA, et al. Health-Related Quality of Life after Dengue Fever, Morelos, Mexico,
2016â2017. Emerg Infect Dis. 2020;26(4):751-755.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190729  
---|---  
AMA | Schulte A, Weber I, Tiga-Loza D, et al. Health-Related Quality of Life
after Dengue Fever, Morelos, Mexico, 2016â2017. _Emerging Infectious
Diseases_. 2020;26(4):751-755. doi:10.3201/eid2604.190729.  
APA | Schulte, A., Weber, I., Tiga-Loza, D., Amaya Larios, I. Y., Shepard, D.
S., Tschampl, C. A....Ramos-CastaÃ±eda, J. (2020). Health-Related Quality of
Life after Dengue Fever, Morelos, Mexico, 2016â2017. _Emerging Infectious
Diseases_ , _26_ (4), 751-755. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190729.  
  
* * *

**Person-to-Person Transmission of Andes Virus in Hantavirus Pulmonary
Syndrome, Argentina, 2014 ** [PDF - 674 KB - 4 pages]

D. O. Alonso et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Andes virus is unique among hantaviruses because it can be transmitted from
person to person. This mechanism was previously supported by epidemiologic
data and genetic evidence based only on partial sequences. We used full-length
virus sequencing to confirm person-to-person transmission of this virus in a
cluster of 3 cases in Argentina in 2014.

EID | Alonso DO, PÃ©rez-Sautu U, Bellomo CM, Prieto K, Iglesias A, Coelho R,
et al. Person-to-Person Transmission of Andes Virus in Hantavirus Pulmonary
Syndrome, Argentina, 2014. Emerg Infect Dis. 2020;26(4):756-759.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190799  
---|---  
AMA | Alonso DO, PÃ©rez-Sautu U, Bellomo CM, et al. Person-to-Person
Transmission of Andes Virus in Hantavirus Pulmonary Syndrome, Argentina, 2014.
_Emerging Infectious Diseases_. 2020;26(4):756-759.
doi:10.3201/eid2604.190799.  
APA | Alonso, D. O., PÃ©rez-Sautu, U., Bellomo, C. M., Prieto, K., Iglesias,
A., Coelho, R....Martinez, V. P. (2020). Person-to-Person Transmission of
Andes Virus in Hantavirus Pulmonary Syndrome, Argentina, 2014. _Emerging
Infectious Diseases_ , _26_ (4), 756-759.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190799.  
  
* * *

**Ebola Virus Neutralizing Antibodies in Dogs from Sierra Leone, 2017 ** [PDF
- 559 KB - 4 pages]

K. Fischer et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Ebola virus (EBOV) is a highly pathogenic zoonotic virus for which the
reservoir host has not been identified. To study the role of dogs as potential
hosts, we screened 300 serum samples from dogs in Sierra Leone and found EBOV
neutralizing antibodies in 12, suggesting their susceptibility to natural
infection.

EID | Fischer K, Suluku R, Fehling S, Jabaty J, Koroma B, Strecker T, et al.
Ebola Virus Neutralizing Antibodies in Dogs from Sierra Leone, 2017. Emerg
Infect Dis. 2020;26(4):760-763. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190802  
---|---  
AMA | Fischer K, Suluku R, Fehling S, et al. Ebola Virus Neutralizing
Antibodies in Dogs from Sierra Leone, 2017. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_.
2020;26(4):760-763. doi:10.3201/eid2604.190802.  
APA | Fischer, K., Suluku, R., Fehling, S., Jabaty, J., Koroma, B., Strecker,
T....Diederich, S. (2020). Ebola Virus Neutralizing Antibodies in Dogs from
Sierra Leone, 2017. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _26_ (4), 760-763.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190802.  
  
* * *

**Outbreak of _Dirkmeia churashimaensis_ Fungemia in a Neonatal Intensive Care
Unit, India ** [PDF - 572 KB - 5 pages]

A. Chowdhary et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Bloodstream infections caused by uncommon or novel fungal species are
challenging to identify and treat. We report a series of cases of fungemia due
to a rare basidiomycete yeast, _Dirkmeia churashimaensis_ , in neonatal
patients in India. Whole-genome sequence typing demonstrated that the patient
isolates were genetically indistinguishable, indicating a single-source
infection.

EID | Chowdhary A, Sharada K, Singh P, Bhagwani D, Kumar N, de Groot T, et al.
Outbreak of Dirkmeia churashimaensis Fungemia in a Neonatal Intensive Care
Unit, India. Emerg Infect Dis. 2020;26(4):764-768.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190847  
---|---  
AMA | Chowdhary A, Sharada K, Singh P, et al. Outbreak of Dirkmeia
churashimaensis Fungemia in a Neonatal Intensive Care Unit, India. _Emerging
Infectious Diseases_. 2020;26(4):764-768. doi:10.3201/eid2604.190847.  
APA | Chowdhary, A., Sharada, K., Singh, P., Bhagwani, D., Kumar, N., de
Groot, T....Meis, J. F. (2020). Outbreak of Dirkmeia churashimaensis Fungemia
in a Neonatal Intensive Care Unit, India. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ ,
_26_ (4), 764-768. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190847.  
  
* * *

**Rift Valley Fever Outbreak, Mayotte, France, 2018â2019 ** [PDF - 1.14 MB -
4 pages]

H. Youssouf et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

From November 2018 through July 2019, an outbreak of Rift Valley fever in
humans occurred in Mayotte, France; 142 cases were confirmed. Exposure to
animals or their biological fluid was reported by 73% of patients. Health
authorities have been implementing control measures, including veterinary
surveys, vector control interventions, and prevention measures.

EID | Youssouf H, Subiros M, Dennetiere G, Collet L, Dommergues L, Pauvert A,
et al. Rift Valley Fever Outbreak, Mayotte, France, 2018â2019. Emerg Infect
Dis. 2020;26(4):769-772. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.191147  
---|---  
AMA | Youssouf H, Subiros M, Dennetiere G, et al. Rift Valley Fever Outbreak,
Mayotte, France, 2018â2019. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_.
2020;26(4):769-772. doi:10.3201/eid2604.191147.  
APA | Youssouf, H., Subiros, M., Dennetiere, G., Collet, L., Dommergues, L.,
Pauvert, A....Larsen, C. (2020). Rift Valley Fever Outbreak, Mayotte, France,
2018â2019. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _26_ (4), 769-772.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.191147.  
  
* * *

**Crimean-Congo Hemorrhagic Fever Virus in Humans and Livestock, Pakistan,
2015â2017 ** [PDF - 2.37 MB - 7 pages]

A. Zohaib et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

We detected Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever virus infections in 4 provinces of
Pakistan during 2017â2018. Overall, seroprevalence was 2.7% in humans and
36.2% in domestic livestock. Antibody prevalence in humans was highest in
rural areas, where increased contact with animals is likely.

EID | Zohaib A, Saqib M, Athar MA, Hussain MH, Sial A, Tayyab MH, et al.
Crimean-Congo Hemorrhagic Fever Virus in Humans and Livestock, Pakistan,
2015â2017. Emerg Infect Dis. 2020;26(4):773-777.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.191154  
---|---  
AMA | Zohaib A, Saqib M, Athar MA, et al. Crimean-Congo Hemorrhagic Fever
Virus in Humans and Livestock, Pakistan, 2015â2017. _Emerging Infectious
Diseases_. 2020;26(4):773-777. doi:10.3201/eid2604.191154.  
APA | Zohaib, A., Saqib, M., Athar, M. A., Hussain, M. H., Sial, A., Tayyab,
M. H....Shi, Z. (2020). Crimean-Congo Hemorrhagic Fever Virus in Humans and
Livestock, Pakistan, 2015â2017. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _26_ (4),
773-777. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.191154.  
  
* * *

**Detection of Zoonotic _Bartonella_ Pathogens in Rabbit Fleas, Colorado, USA
** [PDF - 563 KB - 4 pages]

S. Sato et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

We detected 3 _Bartonella_ species in wild rabbit fleas from Colorado, USA:
_B. vinsonii_ subsp. _berkhoffii_ (n = 16), _B. alsatica_ (n = 5), and _B.
rochalimae_ (n = 1). Our results support the establishment of the zoonotic
agent _B. alsatica_ in North America.

EID | Sato S, Brinkerhoff R, Hollis E, Funada S, Shannon AB, Maruyama S.
Detection of Zoonotic Bartonella Pathogens in Rabbit Fleas, Colorado, USA.
Emerg Infect Dis. 2020;26(4):778-781.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.191161  
---|---  
AMA | Sato S, Brinkerhoff R, Hollis E, et al. Detection of Zoonotic Bartonella
Pathogens in Rabbit Fleas, Colorado, USA. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_.
2020;26(4):778-781. doi:10.3201/eid2604.191161.  
APA | Sato, S., Brinkerhoff, R., Hollis, E., Funada, S., Shannon, A. B., &
Maruyama, S. (2020). Detection of Zoonotic Bartonella Pathogens in Rabbit
Fleas, Colorado, USA. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _26_ (4), 778-781.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.191161.  
  
* * *

**Human-to-Human Transmission of Monkeypox Virus, United Kingdom, October 2018
** [PDF - 307 KB - 4 pages]

A. Vaughan et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

In September 2018, monkeypox virus was transmitted from a patient to a
healthcare worker in the United Kingdom. Transmission was probably through
contact with contaminated bedding. Infection control precautions for contacts
(vaccination, daily monitoring, staying home from work) were implemented. Of
134 potential contacts, 4 became ill; all patients survived.

EID | Vaughan A, Aarons E, Astbury J, Brooks T, Chand M, Flegg P, et al.
Human-to-Human Transmission of Monkeypox Virus, United Kingdom, October 2018.
Emerg Infect Dis. 2020;26(4):782-785.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.191164  
---|---  
AMA | Vaughan A, Aarons E, Astbury J, et al. Human-to-Human Transmission of
Monkeypox Virus, United Kingdom, October 2018. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_.
2020;26(4):782-785. doi:10.3201/eid2604.191164.  
APA | Vaughan, A., Aarons, E., Astbury, J., Brooks, T., Chand, M., Flegg,
P....Dunning, J. (2020). Human-to-Human Transmission of Monkeypox Virus,
United Kingdom, October 2018. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _26_ (4),
782-785. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.191164.  
  
* * *

**Whole-Genome Analysis of _Salmonella enterica_ Serovar Enteritidis Isolates
in Outbreak Linked to Online Food Delivery, Shenzhen, China, 2018 ** [PDF -
1.07 MB - 4 pages]

M. Jiang et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

In July 2018, an outbreak of 10 cases of _Salmonella enterica_ serovar
Enteritidis infection occurred in Shenzhen, China. Outbreak investigation
complemented by whole-genome sequencing traced the source to food ordered
online. Our investigation highlights the role of online food delivery
platforms as a new mode of foodborne disease transmission.

EID | Jiang M, Zhu F, Yang C, Deng Y, Kwan P, Li Y, et al. Whole-Genome
Analysis of Salmonella enterica Serovar Enteritidis Isolates in Outbreak
Linked to Online Food Delivery, Shenzhen, China, 2018. Emerg Infect Dis.
2020;26(4):789-792. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.191446  
---|---  
AMA | Jiang M, Zhu F, Yang C, et al. Whole-Genome Analysis of Salmonella
enterica Serovar Enteritidis Isolates in Outbreak Linked to Online Food
Delivery, Shenzhen, China, 2018. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_.
2020;26(4):789-792. doi:10.3201/eid2604.191446.  
APA | Jiang, M., Zhu, F., Yang, C., Deng, Y., Kwan, P., Li, Y....Hu, Q.
(2020). Whole-Genome Analysis of Salmonella enterica Serovar Enteritidis
Isolates in Outbreak Linked to Online Food Delivery, Shenzhen, China, 2018.
_Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _26_ (4), 789-792.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.191446.  
  
* * *

**Pruritic Cutaneous Nematodiasis Caused by Avian Eyeworm _Oxyspirura_ Larvae,
Vietnam ** [PDF - 1.34 MB - 3 pages]

D. T. Dung et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

A 41-year-old man from Son La Province, Vietnam, sought care for disseminated
prurigo-like skin lesions from which nematode larvae were emerging. We
morphologically and molecularly identified the larvae as _Oxyspirura_ sp. Our
findings confirm this nematode species as a zoonotic pathogen for emerging
disease.

##### Research Letters

* * *

**Novel Rapid Test for Detecting Carbapenemase ** [PDF - 776 KB - 3 pages]

Y. Feng et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

We developed a carbapenemase test based on the ability of imipenem to inhibit
noncarbapenemase Î²-lactamases. The test uses bacterial isolates with a
fluorescent Î²-lactamase substrate, producing objective results with 100%
sensitivity and specificity in 10 minutes. The assay is inexpensive and
consists of only 1 mixing step.

EID | Feng Y, Palanisami A, Kuriakose J, Pigula M, Ashraf S, Hasan T. Novel
Rapid Test for Detecting Carbapenemase. Emerg Infect Dis. 2020;26(4):793-795.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.181655  
---|---  
AMA | Feng Y, Palanisami A, Kuriakose J, et al. Novel Rapid Test for Detecting
Carbapenemase. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_. 2020;26(4):793-795.
doi:10.3201/eid2604.181655.  
APA | Feng, Y., Palanisami, A., Kuriakose, J., Pigula, M., Ashraf, S., &
Hasan, T. (2020). Novel Rapid Test for Detecting Carbapenemase. _Emerging
Infectious Diseases_ , _26_ (4), 793-795.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.181655.  
  
* * *

**Arthritis Caused by MRSA CC398 in a Patient without Animal Contact, Japan **
[PDF - 274 KB - 3 pages]

H. Nakaminami et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Clonal complex 398 methicillin-resistant _Staphylococcus aureus_ (MRSA) is a
typical lineage of livestock-associated MRSA. We report a case of intractable
arthritis of the shoulder joint caused by a multidrug-resistant Panton-
Valentine leukocidinâpositive livestock-associated MRSA clonal complex 398
sequence type 1232 clone in a patient in Japan who had no animal contact.

EID | Nakaminami H, Hirai Y, Nishimura H, Takadama S, Noguchi N. Arthritis
Caused by MRSA CC398 in a Patient without Animal Contact, Japan. Emerg Infect
Dis. 2020;26(4):795-797. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190376  
---|---  
AMA | Nakaminami H, Hirai Y, Nishimura H, et al. Arthritis Caused by MRSA
CC398 in a Patient without Animal Contact, Japan. _Emerging Infectious
Diseases_. 2020;26(4):795-797. doi:10.3201/eid2604.190376.  
APA | Nakaminami, H., Hirai, Y., Nishimura, H., Takadama, S., & Noguchi, N.
(2020). Arthritis Caused by MRSA CC398 in a Patient without Animal Contact,
Japan. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _26_ (4), 795-797.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190376.  
  
* * *

**Detection of Rocio Virus SPH 34675 during Dengue Epidemics, Brazil,
2011â2013 ** [PDF - 343 KB - 3 pages]

M. V. Saivish et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Recent seroprevalence studies in animals detected Rocio virus in regions of
Brazil, indicating risk for re-emergence of this pathogen. We identified Rocio
virus RNA in samples from 2 human patients for whom dengue fever was
clinically suspected but ruled out by laboratory findings. Testing for
infrequent flavivirus infections should expedite diagnoses.

EID | Saivish MV, da Costa VG, Rodrigues RL, FÃ©res V, Montoya-Diaz E, Moreli
ML. Detection of Rocio Virus SPH 34675 during Dengue Epidemics, Brazil,
2011â2013. Emerg Infect Dis. 2020;26(4):797-799.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190487  
---|---  
AMA | Saivish MV, da Costa VG, Rodrigues RL, et al. Detection of Rocio Virus
SPH 34675 during Dengue Epidemics, Brazil, 2011â2013. _Emerging Infectious
Diseases_. 2020;26(4):797-799. doi:10.3201/eid2604.190487.  
APA | Saivish, M. V., da Costa, V. G., Rodrigues, R. L., FÃ©res, V., Montoya-
Diaz, E., & Moreli, M. L. (2020). Detection of Rocio Virus SPH 34675 during
Dengue Epidemics, Brazil, 2011â2013. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _26_
(4), 797-799. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190487.  
  
* * *

**Epidemiology of Lassa Fever and Factors Associated with Deaths, Bauchi
State, Nigeria, 2015â2018 ** [PDF - 304 KB - 11 pages]

M. A. Abdulkarim et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif)
View Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

We report the epidemiology of Lassa fever in Bauchi State, a disease-endemic
region, in Nigeria. Since 2015, major increases in Lassa fever attack rate and
in the case-fatality rate have occurred in this state. A delay in seeking care
by a case-patient for >7 days after symptom onset was the major predictor of
death.

EID | Abdulkarim MA, Babale SM, Umeokonkwo CD, Bamgboye EA, Bashorun AT, Usman
AA, et al. Epidemiology of Lassa Fever and Factors Associated with Deaths,
Bauchi State, Nigeria, 2015â2018. Emerg Infect Dis. 2020;26(4):799-801.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190678  
---|---  
AMA | Abdulkarim MA, Babale SM, Umeokonkwo CD, et al. Epidemiology of Lassa
Fever and Factors Associated with Deaths, Bauchi State, Nigeria, 2015â2018.
_Emerging Infectious Diseases_. 2020;26(4):799-801.
doi:10.3201/eid2604.190678.  
APA | Abdulkarim, M. A., Babale, S. M., Umeokonkwo, C. D., Bamgboye, E. A.,
Bashorun, A. T., Usman, A. A....Balogun, M. S. (2020). Epidemiology of Lassa
Fever and Factors Associated with Deaths, Bauchi State, Nigeria, 2015â2018.
_Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _26_ (4), 799-801.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190678.  
  
* * *

**Plague Epizootic Dynamics in Chipmunk Fleas, Sierra Nevada Mountains,
California, USA, 2013â2015 ** [PDF - 444 KB - 4 pages]

T. T. Hammond et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

We describe _Yersinia pestis_ minimum infection prevalence in fleas collected
from _Tamias_ spp. chipmunks in the Sierra Nevadas (California, USA) during
2013â2015. _Y. pestis_ âpositive fleas were detected only in 2015 (year of
plague epizootic), mostly in _T. speciosus_ chipmunks at high-elevation sites.
Plague surveillance should include testing vectors for _Y. pestis_.

EID | Hammond TT, Liebman KA, Payne R, Pigage HK, Padgett KA. Plague Epizootic
Dynamics in Chipmunk Fleas, Sierra Nevada Mountains, California, USA,
2013â2015. Emerg Infect Dis. 2020;26(4):801-804.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190733  
---|---  
AMA | Hammond TT, Liebman KA, Payne R, et al. Plague Epizootic Dynamics in
Chipmunk Fleas, Sierra Nevada Mountains, California, USA, 2013â2015.
_Emerging Infectious Diseases_. 2020;26(4):801-804.
doi:10.3201/eid2604.190733.  
APA | Hammond, T. T., Liebman, K. A., Payne, R., Pigage, H. K., & Padgett, K.
A. (2020). Plague Epizootic Dynamics in Chipmunk Fleas, Sierra Nevada
Mountains, California, USA, 2013â2015. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _26_
(4), 801-804. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190733.  
  
* * *

**_Brucella melitensis_ in Asian Badgers, Northwestern China ** [PDF - 922 KB
- 3 pages]

X. Liu et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

We isolated _Brucella melitensis_ biovar 3 from the spleen of an Asian badger
( _Meles leucurus_ ) in Nilka County, northwestern China. Our investigation
showed that this isolate had a common multilocus variable-number tandem-repeat
analysis 16 genotype, similar to bacterial isolates from local aborted sheep
fetuses.

EID | Liu X, Yang M, Song S, Liu G, Zhao S, Liu G, et al. Brucella melitensis
in Asian Badgers, Northwestern China. Emerg Infect Dis. 2020;26(4):804-806.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190833  
---|---  
AMA | Liu X, Yang M, Song S, et al. Brucella melitensis in Asian Badgers,
Northwestern China. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_. 2020;26(4):804-806.
doi:10.3201/eid2604.190833.  
APA | Liu, X., Yang, M., Song, S., Liu, G., Zhao, S., Liu, G....Jiang, H.
(2020). Brucella melitensis in Asian Badgers, Northwestern China. _Emerging
Infectious Diseases_ , _26_ (4), 804-806.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190833.  
  
* * *

**Knowledge of Infectious Disease Specialists Regarding Aspergillosis
Complicating Influenza, United States ** [PDF - 278 KB - 3 pages]

M. Toda et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

In an online survey, we found that nearly one fifth of physicians in the
United States who responded had seen or heard about a case of invasive
pulmonary aspergillosis after severe influenza at their institution. However,
<10% routinely used galactomannan testing to test for this fungus in patients
with severe influenza.

EID | Toda M, Beekmann SE, Polgreen PM, Chiller TM, Jackson BR, Beer KD.
Knowledge of Infectious Disease Specialists Regarding Aspergillosis
Complicating Influenza, United States. Emerg Infect Dis. 2020;26(4):809-811.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190953  
---|---  
AMA | Toda M, Beekmann SE, Polgreen PM, et al. Knowledge of Infectious Disease
Specialists Regarding Aspergillosis Complicating Influenza, United States.
_Emerging Infectious Diseases_. 2020;26(4):809-811.
doi:10.3201/eid2604.190953.  
APA | Toda, M., Beekmann, S. E., Polgreen, P. M., Chiller, T. M., Jackson, B.
R., & Beer, K. D. (2020). Knowledge of Infectious Disease Specialists
Regarding Aspergillosis Complicating Influenza, United States. _Emerging
Infectious Diseases_ , _26_ (4), 809-811.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190953.  
  
* * *

**West Nile Virus in Farmed Crocodiles, Zambia, 2019 ** [PDF - 498 KB - 4
pages]

E. Simulundu et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

We detected West Nile virus (WNV) nucleic acid in crocodiles ( _Crocodylus
niloticus_ ) in Zambia. Phylogenetically, the virus belonged to lineage 1a,
which is predominant in the Northern Hemisphere. These data provide evidence
that WNV is circulating in crocodiles in Africa and increases the risk for
animal and human transmission.

EID | Simulundu E, Ndashe K, Chambaro HM, Squarre D, Reilly P, Chitanga S, et
al. West Nile Virus in Farmed Crocodiles, Zambia, 2019. Emerg Infect Dis.
2020;26(4):811-814. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190954  
---|---  
AMA | Simulundu E, Ndashe K, Chambaro HM, et al. West Nile Virus in Farmed
Crocodiles, Zambia, 2019. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_. 2020;26(4):811-814.
doi:10.3201/eid2604.190954.  
APA | Simulundu, E., Ndashe, K., Chambaro, H. M., Squarre, D., Reilly, P.,
Chitanga, S....Sawa, H. (2020). West Nile Virus in Farmed Crocodiles, Zambia,
2019. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _26_ (4), 811-814.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190954.  
  
* * *

**Needlestick-Associated Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever, Brazil ** [PDF - 292 KB
- 2 pages]

S. Vilges de Oliveira et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-
expand.gif) View Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif)
Cite This Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this
Article

We report a fatal case of Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF) in a man in
Brazil without recent history of tick bites or environmental exposure. He
received an accidental needlestick while working as a nurse. The nurse and his
patient died. Both cases were confirmed as RMSF by molecular methods.

EID | Vilges de Oliveira S, Faccini-MartÃ­nez ÃA, Adelino T, de Lima DurÃ© A,
Barbieri A, Labruna MB. Needlestick-Associated Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever,
Brazil. Emerg Infect Dis. 2020;26(4):815-816.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.191251  
---|---  
AMA | Vilges de Oliveira S, Faccini-MartÃ­nez ÃA, Adelino T, et al.
Needlestick-Associated Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever, Brazil. _Emerging
Infectious Diseases_. 2020;26(4):815-816. doi:10.3201/eid2604.191251.  
APA | Vilges de Oliveira, S., Faccini-MartÃ­nez, Ã. A., Adelino, T., de Lima
DurÃ©, A., Barbieri, A., & Labruna, M. B. (2020). Needlestick-Associated Rocky
Mountain Spotted Fever, Brazil. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _26_ (4),
815-816. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.191251.  
  
* * *

**Crimean-Congo Hemorrhagic Fever, Mauritania ** [PDF - 396 KB - 2 pages]

B. Boushab et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

The distribution of Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever (CCHF), a tickborne
arboviral disease, is not well known in West Africa. We report 2 recent human
cases of CCHF with infectious syndrome and severe bleeding in Mauritania. CCHF
was diagnosed by ELISA and real time reverse transcription PCR. No secondary
CCHF cases were found.

EID | Boushab B, Kelly M, KÃ©bÃ© H, Bollahi M, Basco LK. Crimean-Congo
Hemorrhagic Fever, Mauritania. Emerg Infect Dis. 2020;26(4):817-818.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.191292  
---|---  
AMA | Boushab B, Kelly M, KÃ©bÃ© H, et al. Crimean-Congo Hemorrhagic Fever,
Mauritania. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_. 2020;26(4):817-818.
doi:10.3201/eid2604.191292.  
APA | Boushab, B., Kelly, M., KÃ©bÃ©, H., Bollahi, M., & Basco, L. K. (2020).
Crimean-Congo Hemorrhagic Fever, Mauritania. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ ,
_26_ (4), 817-818. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.191292.  
  
* * *

**Trombiculiasis in a Dog with Severe Neurologic Disorders, Spain ** [PDF -
673 KB - 2 pages]

P. Santibañez et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Chiggers, the larvae of trombiculid mites, parasitize a wide variety of
terrestrial vertebrates worldwide. Their bites cause seasonal trombiculiasis
in humans and animals. Affected canines can have a variety of digestive and
systemic clinical signs. We describe a case of canine trombiculiasis in a dog
exhibiting severe neurologic symptoms.

EID | SantibÃ¡Ã±ez P, Gallo E, Palomar AM, Portillo A, Carrillo JA, Oteo JA.
Trombiculiasis in a Dog with Severe Neurologic Disorders, Spain. Emerg Infect
Dis. 2020;26(4):819-820. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.191313  
---|---  
AMA | SantibÃ¡Ã±ez P, Gallo E, Palomar AM, et al. Trombiculiasis in a Dog with
Severe Neurologic Disorders, Spain. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_.
2020;26(4):819-820. doi:10.3201/eid2604.191313.  
APA | SantibÃ¡Ã±ez, P., Gallo, E., Palomar, A. M., Portillo, A., Carrillo, J.
A., & Oteo, J. A. (2020). Trombiculiasis in a Dog with Severe Neurologic
Disorders, Spain. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _26_ (4), 819-820.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.191313.  
  
* * *

**Tick-Borne Relapsing Fever Caused by _Borrelia persica_ in Traveler to
Central Asia, 2019 ** [PDF - 484 KB - 3 pages]

V. Muigg et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

We report a case of tick-borne relapsing fever caused by _Borrelia persica_ in
a traveler returning to Switzerland from central Asia. After the disease was
diagnosed by blood smear microscopy, the causative _Borrelia_ species was
confirmed by shotgun metagenomics sequencing. PCR and sequencing techniques
provide highly sensitive diagnostic tools superior to microscopy.

EID | Muigg V, Seth-Smith H, Goldenberger D, Egli A, Nickel B, DÃ¼rig R, et
al. Tick-Borne Relapsing Fever Caused by Borrelia persica in Traveler to
Central Asia, 2019. Emerg Infect Dis. 2020;26(4):824-826.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.191771  
---|---  
AMA | Muigg V, Seth-Smith H, Goldenberger D, et al. Tick-Borne Relapsing Fever
Caused by Borrelia persica in Traveler to Central Asia, 2019. _Emerging
Infectious Diseases_. 2020;26(4):824-826. doi:10.3201/eid2604.191771.  
APA | Muigg, V., Seth-Smith, H., Goldenberger, D., Egli, A., Nickel, B.,
DÃ¼rig, R....Neumayr, A. (2020). Tick-Borne Relapsing Fever Caused by Borrelia
persica in Traveler to Central Asia, 2019. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ ,
_26_ (4), 824-826. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.191771.  
  
* * *

**Imported Human Babesiosis, Singapore, 2018 ** [PDF - 767 KB - 3 pages]

P. Lim et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

In 2018, _Babesia microti_ infection was diagnosed for a 37-year-old man in
Singapore who acquired the infection in the United States. This case
highlights the recent rise of tickborne infections in the United States and
the risk for their spread, because of increasing global interconnectivity, to
regions where they are not endemic.

EID | Lim P, Chavatte J, Vasoo S, Yang J. Imported Human Babesiosis,
Singapore, 2018. Emerg Infect Dis. 2020;26(4):826-828.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.200025  
---|---  
AMA | Lim P, Chavatte J, Vasoo S, et al. Imported Human Babesiosis, Singapore,
2018. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_. 2020;26(4):826-828.
doi:10.3201/eid2604.200025.  
APA | Lim, P., Chavatte, J., Vasoo, S., & Yang, J. (2020). Imported Human
Babesiosis, Singapore, 2018. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _26_ (4),
826-828. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.200025.  
  
* * *

**Multicenter Study of Azole-Resistant _Aspergillus fumigatus_ Clinical
Isolates, Taiwan ** [PDF - 1.41 MB - 3 pages]

C. Wu et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

In a multicenter study, we determined a prevalence rate of 4% for azole-
resistant _Aspergillus fumigatus_ in Taiwan. Resistance emerged mainly from
the environment (TR34/L98H, TR34/L98H/S297T/F495I, and TR46/Y121F/T289A
mutations) but occasionally during azole treatment. A high mortality rate
observed for azole-resistant aspergillosis necessitates diagnostic stewardship
in healthcare and antifungal stewardship in the environment.

EID | Wu C, Liu W, Lai C, Chao C, Ko W, Wang H, et al. Multicenter Study of
Azole-Resistant Aspergillus fumigatus Clinical Isolates, Taiwan. Emerg Infect
Dis. 2020;26(4):804-806. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190840  
---|---  
AMA | Wu C, Liu W, Lai C, et al. Multicenter Study of Azole-Resistant
Aspergillus fumigatus Clinical Isolates, Taiwan. _Emerging Infectious
Diseases_. 2020;26(4):804-806. doi:10.3201/eid2604.190840.  
APA | Wu, C., Liu, W., Lai, C., Chao, C., Ko, W., Wang, H....Chen, Y. (2020).
Multicenter Study of Azole-Resistant Aspergillus fumigatus Clinical Isolates,
Taiwan. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _26_ (4), 804-806.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.190840.  
  
* * *

**Geographic Distribution of Raccoon Roundworm, _Baylisascaris procyonis_ ,
Germany and Luxembourg ** [PDF - 1.68 MB - 3 pages]

M. Heddergott et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Infestation with _Baylisascaris procyonis_ , a gastrointestinal nematode of
the raccoon, can cause fatal disease in humans. We found that the parasite is
widespread in central Germany and can pose a public health risk. The spread of
_B. procyonis_ roundworms into nematode-free raccoon populations needs to be
monitored.

EID | Heddergott M, Steinbach P, Schwarz S, Anheyer-Behmenburg HE, Sutor A,
Schliephake A, et al. Geographic Distribution of Raccoon Roundworm,
Baylisascaris procyonis, Germany and Luxembourg. Emerg Infect Dis.
2020;26(4):821-823. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.191670  
---|---  
AMA | Heddergott M, Steinbach P, Schwarz S, et al. Geographic Distribution of
Raccoon Roundworm, Baylisascaris procyonis, Germany and Luxembourg. _Emerging
Infectious Diseases_. 2020;26(4):821-823. doi:10.3201/eid2604.191670.  
APA | Heddergott, M., Steinbach, P., Schwarz, S., Anheyer-Behmenburg, H. E.,
Sutor, A., Schliephake, A....Frantz, A. C. (2020). Geographic Distribution of
Raccoon Roundworm, Baylisascaris procyonis, Germany and Luxembourg. _Emerging
Infectious Diseases_ , _26_ (4), 821-823.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.191670.  
  
##### About the Cover

* * *

**Different Angles, Changing Perspectives ** [PDF - 2.37 MB - 2 pages]

B. Breedlove and R. Tucker ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-
expand.gif) Cite This Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif)
Email this Article

EID | Breedlove B, Tucker R. Different Angles, Changing Perspectives. Emerg
Infect Dis. 2020;26(4):829-830. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.ac2604  
---|---  
AMA | Breedlove B, Tucker R. Different Angles, Changing Perspectives.
_Emerging Infectious Diseases_. 2020;26(4):829-830.
doi:10.3201/eid2604.ac2604.  
APA | Breedlove, B., & Tucker, R. (2020). Different Angles, Changing
Perspectives. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _26_ (4), 829-830.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.ac2604.  
  
##### Etymologia

* * *

**Etymologia: Trombiculiasis ** [PDF - 359 KB - 1 page]

R. Henry ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

EID | Henry R. Etymologia: Trombiculiasis. Emerg Infect Dis. 2020;26(4):821.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.et2604  
---|---  
AMA | Henry R. Etymologia: Trombiculiasis. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_.
2020;26(4):821. doi:10.3201/eid2604.et2604.  
APA | Henry, R. (2020). Etymologia: Trombiculiasis. _Emerging Infectious
Diseases_ , _26_ (4), 821. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.et2604.  
  
##### Conference Summaries

* * *

**Workshop Report on Global Harmonization of Enterovirus Vaccines **

T. Weng et al. ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

_Disclaimer: Early release articles are not considered as final versions. Any
changes will be reflected in the online version in the month the article is
officially released._

Issues Available

May 2020

* * *

June 2020

* * *

July 2020

* * *

August 2020

#### Volume 26, Number 5âMay 2020

##### Synopses

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Food Safety and Invasive _Cronobacter_ Infections during Early Infancy, 1961â2018 

J. Strysko et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clinical Outcomes of Patients Treated for _Candida auris_ Infections in a Multisite Health System, Illinois, USA 

K. Arensman et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mosquito Control Activities During Local Transmission of Zika Virus, Miami-Dade County, Florida, USA, 2016 

J. C. McAllister et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Epidemiology of Tick-Borne Relapsing Fever in Endemic Area, Spain

M. DomÃ­nguez et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Tick-borne relapsing fever (TBRF) is caused by spirochetes of _Borrelia_
bacteria. We collected data on all TBRF cases in a TBRF-endemic area in
southwest Spain during 1994â2016. We analyzed data from 98 patients in whom
TBRF was diagnosed by light microscopy and analyzed the relationship between
climatic data and TBRF incidence. Most cases occurred a rural environment
during summer and autumn. We describe demographic, epidemiologic, clinical,
and analytical characteristics, treatment, and occurrence of Jarisch-
Herxheimer reaction. Most patients had fever and headache, and laboratory test
results included elevated C-reactive protein, thrombocytopenia, and
neutrophilia. No patients died, but 10.1% had Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction. _B.
hispanica_ was the infecting species in 12 cases with PCR results. Clinicians
often do not suspect TBRF because clinical signs and symptoms vary; therefore,
it is likely underdiagnosed, even in disease-endemic areas.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Surveillance of Leprosy in Kiribati, 1935â2017

S. T. Chambers et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif)
View Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

In Kiribati, unlike most countries, high and increasing numbers of cases of
leprosy have been reported despite the availability of multidrug therapy and
efforts to improve case finding and management. Historic records show that 28
cases had been identified by 1925. A systematic population survey in 1997
identified 135 new cases; the mean incidence rate for 1993â1997 was
7.4/10,000 population. After administering mass chemoprophylaxis, the country
reached the elimination threshold (prevalence <1/10,000), but case numbers
have rebounded. The mean annualized rate of new cases in 2013â2017 was
15/10,000 population, with the highest new case rates (>20/10,000 population)
in the main population centers of South Tarawa and Betio. Spread is expected
to continue in areas where crowding and poor socioeconomic conditions persist
and may accelerate as sea levels rise from climate change. New initiatives to
improve social conditions are needed, and efforts such as postexposure
chemoprophylaxis should be implemented to prevent spread.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Biphasic Outbreak of Invasive Group A _Streptococcus_ Disease in Eldercare Facility, New Zealand

K. A. Worthing et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif)
View Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

A 3-month outbreak of invasive group A _Streptococcus_ disease at an eldercare
facility, in which 5 persons died, was biphasic. Although targeted
chemoprophylaxis contained the initial outbreak, a second phase of the
outbreak occurred after infection control processes ended. To retrospectively
investigate the genomic epidemiology of the biphasic outbreak, we used whole-
genome sequencing and multiple bioinformatics approaches. Analysis of isolates
from the outbreak and isolates prospectively collected during the outbreak
response indicated a single S _. pyogenes_ _emm_ 81 clone among residents and
staff members. Outbreak isolates differed from nonoutbreak _emm_ 81 isolates
by harboring an integrative conjugative genomic element that contained the
macrolide resistance determinant _erm_ (TR). This study shows how
retrospective high-resolution genomic investigations identified rapid spread
of a closed-facilty clonal outbreak that was controlled, but not readily
cleared, by infection control management procedures.

##### Research

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Sex Differences in Social Contact Patterns and Implications for Tuberculosis Transmission and Control

K. C. Horton et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Social contact patterns might contribute to excess burden of tuberculosis in
men. We conducted a study of social contact surveys to evaluate contact
patterns relevant to tuberculosis transmission. Available data describe 21
surveys in 17 countries and show profound differences in sex-based and age-
based patterns of contact. Adults reported more adult contacts than children.
Children preferentially mixed with women in all surveys (median sex
assortativity 58%, interquartile range [IQR] 57%â59% for boys, 61% [IQR
60%â63%] for girls). Men and women reported sex-assortative mixing in 80%
and 95% of surveys (median sex assortativity 56% [IQR 54%â58%] for men, 59%
[IQR 57%â63%] for women). Sex-specific patterns of contact with adults were
similar at home and outside the home for children; adults reported greater sex
assortativity outside the home in most surveys. Sex assortativity in adult
contacts likely contributes to sex disparities in adult tuberculosis burden by
amplifying incidence among men.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Effectiveness of Live Poultry Market Interventions on Human Infection with Avian Influenza A(H7N9) Virus, China

W. Wang et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Various interventions for live poultry markets (LPMs) have emerged to control
outbreaks of avian influenza A(H7N9) virus in mainland China since March 2013.
We assessed the effectiveness of various LPM interventions in reducing
transmission of H7N9 virus across 5 annual waves during 2013â2018,
especially in the final wave. With the exception of waves 1 and 4, various LPM
interventions reduced daily incidence rates significantly across waves. Four
LPM interventions led to a mean reduction of 34%â98% in the daily number of
infections in wave 5. Of these, permanent closure provided the most effective
reduction in human infection with H7N9 virus, followed by long-period, short-
period, and recursive closures in wave 5. The effectiveness of various LPM
interventions changed with the type of intervention across epidemics.
Permanent LPM closure should be considered to maintain sufficient
effectiveness of interventions and prevent the recurrence of H7N9 epidemics.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika Virus Circulation in Mali 

I. Diarra et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Epidemiologic and Clinical Progression of Lobomycosis among Kaiabi Indians, Brazil, 1965â2019

M. C. Florian et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Lobomycosis is a rare granulomatous skin disease with a high prevalence in the
Amazon region. The Kaiabi Indians are an especially affected group. We studied
the current epidemiologic and clinical progression of lobomycosis among the
Kaiabi in Brazil, from initial case reports in 1965 through 2019. A total of
60 lobomycosis cases had been reported among the Kaiabi, and we identified 3
new cases in our review. Of 550 cases of lobomycosis ever reported worldwide,
11.5% were among the Kaiabi. We note a high incidence among female Kaiabi and
a precocious onset of disease in this indigenous population. Male Kaiabi
frequently are infected with the multicentric form and women more frequently
exhibit the localized form. Ulcerated lesions are observed more often in the
multicentric form. The prevalence among this indigenous group could be
explained by genetic susceptibility and lifestyle, which exposes them to a
particular agent in the habitats in which they live.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nationwide Monitoring for _Plasmodium falciparum_ Drug-Resistance Alleles to Chloroquine, Sulfadoxine, and Pyrimethamine, Haiti, 2016â2017

E. Rogier et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Haiti is striving for zero local malaria transmission by the year 2025.
Chloroquine remains the first-line treatment, and sulfadoxine/pyrimethamine
(SP) has been used for mass drug-administration pilot programs. In March 2016,
nationwide molecular surveillance was initiated to assess molecular resistance
signatures for chloroquine and SP. For 778 samples collected through December
2017, we used Sanger sequencing to investigate putative resistance markers to
chloroquine ( _Pfcrt_ codons 72, 74, 75, and 76), sulfadoxine ( _Pfdhps_
codons 436, 437, 540, 581, 613), and pyrimethamine ( _Pfdhfr_ codons 50, 51,
59, 108, 164). No parasites harbored _Pfcrt_ point mutations. Prevalence of
the _Pfdhfr_ S108N single mutation was 47%, and we found the triple mutant
_Pfdhfr_ haplotype (108N, 51I, and 59R) in a single isolate. We observed no
_Pfdhps_ variants except in 1 isolate (A437G mutation). These data confirm the
lack of highly resistant chloroquine and SP alleles in Haiti and support the
continued use of chloroquine and SP.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Possible Transmission Mechanisms of Mixed-Strain _Mycobacterium tuberculosis_ in High HIV-Prevalence Country, Botswana 

Y. Baik et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Rhizopus microsporus_ Infections Associated with Surgical Procedures, Argentina, 2006â2014

J. R. Bowers et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

_Rhizopus_ spp. fungi are ubiquitous in the environment and a rare but
substantial cause of infection in immunosuppressed persons and surgery
patients. During 2005â2017, an abnormally high number of _Rhizopus_
infections in surgery patients, with no apparent epidemiologic links, were
reported in Argentina. To determine the likelihood of a common source of the
cluster, we performed whole-genome sequencing on samples collected during
2006â2014. Most isolates were separated by >60 single-nucleotide
polymorphisms, and we found no evidence for recombination or nonneutral
mutation accumulation; these findings do not support common source or patient-
to-patient transmission. Assembled genomes of most isolates were â25 Mbp,
and multiple isolates had substantially larger assembled genomes (43â51
Mbp), indicative of infections with strain types that underwent genome
expansion. Whole-genome sequencing has become an essential tool for studying
epidemiology of fungal infections. Less discriminatory techniques may miss
true relationships, possibly resulting in inappropriate attribution of point
source.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Blastomycosis in Minnesota, USA, 1999â2018 

M. Ireland et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Effects of Air Pollution and Other Environmental Exposures on Estimates of Severe Influenza Illness, Washington, USA

R. Somayaji et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Ecologic models of influenza burden may be confounded by other exposures that
share winter seasonality. We evaluated the effects of air pollution and other
environmental exposures in ecologic models estimating influenza-associated
hospitalizations. We linked hospitalization data, viral surveillance, and
environmental data, including temperature, relative humidity, dew point, and
fine particulate matter for 3 counties in Washington, USA, for 2001â2012. We
used negative binomial regression models to estimate the incidence of
influenza-associated respiratory and circulatory (RC) hospitalizations and to
assess the effect of adjusting for environmental exposures on RC
hospitalization estimates. The modeled overall incidence rate of influenza-
associated RC hospitalizations was 31/100,000 person-years. The environmental
parameters were statistically associated with RC hospitalizations but did not
appreciably affect the event rate estimates. Modeled influenza-associated RC
hospitalization rates were similar to published estimates, and inclusion of
environmental covariates in the model did not have a clinically important
effect on severe influenza estimates.

##### Policy Review

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nonpharmaceutical Measures for Pandemic Influenza in Nonhealthcare SettingsâPersonal Protective and Environmental Measures

J. Xiao et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

There were 3 influenza pandemics in the 20th century, and there has been 1 so
far in the 21st century. Local, national, and international health authorities
regularly update their plans for mitigating the next influenza pandemic in
light of the latest available evidence on the effectiveness of various control
measures in reducing transmission. Here, we review the evidence base on the
effectiveness of nonpharmaceutical personal protective measures and
environmental hygiene measures in nonhealthcare settings and discuss their
potential inclusion in pandemic plans. Although mechanistic studies support
the potential effect of hand hygiene or face masks, evidence from 14
randomized controlled trials of these measures did not support a substantial
effect on transmission of laboratory-confirmed influenza. We similarly found
limited evidence on the effectiveness of improved hygiene and environmental
cleaning. We identified several major knowledge gaps requiring further
research, most fundamentally an improved characterization of the modes of
person-to-person transmission.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nonpharmaceutical Measures for Pandemic Influenza in Nonhealthcare SettingsâSocial Distancing Measures

M. W. Fong et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Influenza virus infections are believed to spread mostly by close contact in
the community. Social distancing measures are essential components of the
public health response to influenza pandemics. The objective of these
mitigation measures is to reduce transmission, thereby delaying the epidemic
peak, reducing the size of the epidemic peak, and spreading cases over a
longer time to relieve pressure on the healthcare system. We conducted
systematic reviews of the evidence base for effectiveness of multiple
mitigation measures: isolating ill persons, contact tracing, quarantining
exposed persons, school closures, workplace measures/closures, and avoiding
crowding. Evidence supporting the effectiveness of these measures was obtained
largely from observational studies and simulation studies. Voluntary isolation
at home might be a more feasible social distancing measure, and pandemic plans
should consider how to facilitate this measure. More drastic social distancing
measures might be reserved for severe pandemics.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nonpharmaceutical Measures for Pandemic Influenza in Nonhealthcare SettingsâInternational Travel-Related Measures

S. Ryu et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

International travelârelated nonpharmaceutical interventions (NPIs), which
can include traveler screening, travel restrictions, and border closures,
often are included in national influenza pandemic preparedness plans. We
performed systematic reviews to identify evidence for their effectiveness. We
found 15 studies in total. Some studies reported that NPIs could delay the
introduction of influenza virus. However, no available evidence indicated that
screening of inbound travelers would have a substantial effect on preventing
spread of pandemic influenza, and no studies examining exit screening were
found. Some studies reported that travel restrictions could delay the start of
local transmission and slow international spread, and 1 study indicated that
small Pacific islands were able to prevent importation of pandemic influenza
during 1918â19 through complete border closure. This limited evidence base
indicates that international travel-related NPIs would have limited
effectiveness in controlling pandemic influenza and that these measures
require considerable resources to implement.

##### Dispatches

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Womenâs Awareness and Healthcare Provider Discussions about Zika Virus during Pregnancy, United States, 2016â2017 

L. Williams et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * A Neighbor-Based Approach to Identify Tuberculosis Exposure, Africa 

P. K. Moonan et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Genetic Characterization of Japanese Encephalitis Virus Genotype 5 Isolated from Patient, South Korea, 2015

J. Woo et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

We isolated Japanese encephalitis virus genotype 5 from human specimens in
South Korea. Whole-genome analysis showed 90.4% identity with other genotype 5
viruses from humans. This virus had a unique insertion in the NS4A gene.
However, the envelope protein contained Lys 84, which was specific to strains
of genotype 5 viruses from South Korea.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Candidatus_ Rickettsia xinyangensis as Cause of Spotted Fever Group Rickettsiosis, Xinyang, China, 2015

H. Li et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

In 2015, we evaluated 221 patients with undifferentiated fever and tick bite
or animal exposure in Xinyang, China, for _Rickettsia_ infection. Three with
mild disease were infected with _Candidatus_ R. xinyangensis, which clustered
with _R. fournieri_ and _R. vini_ in phylogenetic analyses. Field
investigations suggest _Haemaphysalis longicornis_ ticks might be involved in
transmission.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Capybara and Brush Cutter Involvement in Q Fever Outbreak in Remote Area of Amazon Rain Forest, French Guiana, 2014

J. Christen et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

We investigated a Q fever outbreak that occurred in an isolated area of the
Amazon Rain Forest in French Guiana in 2014. Capybara fecal samples were
positive for _Coxiella burnetii_ DNA. Being near brush cutters in use was
associated with disease development. Capybaras are a putative reservoir for
_C. burnetii_.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Update on Ebola Treatment Center Costs and Sustainability, United States, 2019

J. J. Herstein et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif)
View Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

We surveyed 56 Ebola treatment centers (ETCs) in the United States and
identified costs incurred since 2014 ($1.76 million/ETC) and sustainability
strategies. ETCs reported heavy reliance on federal funding. It is uncertain
if, or for how long, ETCs can maintain capabilities should federal funding
expire in 2020.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Species Distribution and Isolation Frequency of Nontuberculous Mycobacteria, Uruguay 

G. Greif et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pretreatment Out-of-Pocket Expenses for Presumptive Multidrug-Resistant Tuberculosis Patients, India, 2016â2017

P. Rathi et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

In India, under the National Tuberculosis Elimination Programme, the
government provides free treatment for multidrug-resistant tuberculosis;
however, many patients seek care elsewhere, which is costly. To determine
those out-of-pocket expenses, we interviewed 40 presumptive patients and found
that they spent more than their median annual income before registering for
the government program.

##### Research Letters

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Antibodies against Crimean-Congo Hemorrhagic Fever Virus in Livestock, Corsica Island, France, 2014â2016 

S. Grech-Angelini et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Risk for Transportation of 2019 Novel Coronavirus Disease from Wuhan to Other Cities in China

Z. Du et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

On January 23, 2020, China quarantined Wuhan to contain 2019 novel coronavirus
disease (COVID-19). We estimated the probability of transportation of COVID-19
from Wuhan to 369 other cities in China before the quarantine. Expected
COVID-19 risk is >50% in 130 (95% CI 89â190) cities and >99% in the 4
largest metropolitan areas.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MDR _Salmonella_ Serotype Anatum in Travelers and Seafood Imported from Asia, USA 

B. E. Karp et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Average Hepatitis A Hospitalization Costs, United States, 2016 

M. G. Hofmeister et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Case of _Babesia crassa_ -like Infection, Slovenia 

K. Smrdel et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Crimean-Congo Hemorrhagic Fever Virus Endemicity in United Arab Emirates, 2019

J. V. Camp et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

We conducted a cross-sectional survey of Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever virus
(CCHFV) in dromedary camels and attached ticks at 3 locations in the United
Arab Emirates. Results revealed a high prevalence of CCHFV-reactive antibodies
in camels and viral RNA in ticks and camel serum, suggesting the virus is
endemic in this country.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Serologic Detection of Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus Functional Antibodies

N. Okba et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

We developed and validated 2 species-independent protein-based assays to
detect Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus functional antibodies that
can block virus receptor-binding or sialic acid-attachment. Antibody levels
measured in both assays correlated strongly with virus-neutralizing antibody
titers, proving their use for serologic confirmatory diagnosis of Middle East
respiratory syndrome.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika Inquiries Made to the CDC-INFO System, December 2015âSeptember 2017

T. Sell et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

We examined Zika-related inquiries to CDC-INFO, the national contact center
for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, to identify potential
communication gaps. The most frequently asked questions related to travel or
geographic location of Zika (42% of all inquiries), information about
laboratory testing (13%), or acquiring a Zika test (11%).

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Rise in Murine Typhus in Galveston County, Texas, USA, 2018 

K. Ruiz et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Potential Presymptomatic Transmission of SARS-CoV-2, Zhejiang Province, China, 2020

Z. Tong et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

We report a 2-family cluster of persons infected with severe acute respiratory
syndrome coronavirus 2 in the city of Zhoushan, Zhejiang Province, China,
during January 2020. The infections resulted from contact with an infected but
potentially presymptomatic traveler from the city of Wuhan in Hubei Province.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fatal Rodentborne Leptospirosis in Prison Inmates, South Africa, 2015

K. Naidoo et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Leptospirosis is a neglected zoonotic disease. In 2015, leptospirosis was
diagnosed in 2 prison inmates in South Africa. Using real-time PCR and DNA
sequencing, we identified _Leptospira interrogans_ serogroup
Icterohaemorrhagiae in rodents and water samples within the prison.
Leptospirosis might be frequently underdiagnosed in South Africa.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Novel _Ehrlichia_ Strain Infecting Cattle Tick _Amblyomma neumanni_ , Argentina, 2018

L. Fargnoli et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

In 2018, we detected a novel _Ehrlichia_ strain infecting _Amblyomma neumanni_
ticks in Argentina. The novel strain is phylogenetically related to the
ruminant pathogen _E. ruminantium_ and represents a potential risk for
veterinary and public health because _A. neumanni_ ticks parasitize domestic
and wild ruminants and bite humans.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Diplorickettsia_ Bacteria in an _Ixodes scapularis_ Tick, Vermont, USA

C. Merenstein et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

An unexpected _Diplorickettsia_ species closely related to the tickborne
pathogen _D. massieliensis_ was found in the microbiome of an _Ixodes
scapularis_ tick in Vermont, USA. This evidence of _Diplorickettsia_ in North
American ticks suggests a need for disease surveillance using molecular
screening of ticks and serologic studies of humans.

##### Books and Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Superbugs: the Race to Stop an Epidemic 

A. Read

##### Etymologia

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Etymologia: Coronavirus

R. Henry ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Top

#### Volume 26, Number 6âJune 2020

##### Perspective

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Identifying and Interrupting Superspreading EventsâImplications for Control of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2

T. R. Frieden and C. T. Lee ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-
expand.gif) View Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email
this Article

It appears inevitable that severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2
will continue to spread. Although we still have limited information on the
epidemiology of this virus, there have been multiple reports of superspreading
events (SSEs), which are associated with both explosive growth early in an
outbreak and sustained transmission in later stages. Although SSEs appear to
be difficult to predict and therefore difficult to prevent, core public health
actions can prevent and reduce the number and impact of SSEs. To prevent and
control of SSEs, speed is essential. Prevention and mitigation of SSEs
depends, first and foremost, on quickly recognizing and understanding these
events, particularly within healthcare settings. Better understanding
transmission dynamics associated with SSEs, identifying and mitigating high-
risk settings, strict adherence to healthcare infection prevention and control
measures, and timely implementation of nonpharmaceutical interventions can
help prevent and control severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2, as
well as future infectious disease outbreaks.

##### Synopses

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Genomic Epidemiology of 2015â2016 Zika Virus Outbreak in Cape Verde 

O. Faye et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Risks Related to Chikungunya Infections among European Union Travelers, 2012â2018 

C. M. Gossner et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Manifestations of Toxic Shock Syndrome in Children, Columbus, Ohio, USA, 2010â2017 

A. Cook et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pharmacologic Treatments and Supportive Care for Middle East Respiratory Syndrome

T. Kain et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Available animal and cell line models have suggested that specific
therapeutics might be effective in treating Middle East respiratory syndrome
(MERS). We conducted a systematic review of evidence for treatment with
pharmacologic and supportive therapies. We developed a protocol and searched 5
databases for studies describing treatment of MERS and deaths in MERS
patients. Risk of bias (RoB) was assessed by using ROBINS-I tool. We retrieved
3,660 unique citations; 20 observational studies met eligibility, and we
studied 13 therapies. Most studies were at serious or critical RoB; no studies
were at low RoB. One study, at moderate RoB, showed reduced mortality rates in
severe MERS patients with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation; no other
studies showed a significant lifesaving benefit to any treatment. The existing
literature on treatments for MERS is observational and at moderate to critical
RoB. Clinical trials are needed to guide treatment decisions.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Epidemiologic Changes in Scrub Typhus Infection,1952â2016, China 

Z. Li et al.

##### Research

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Endemic Chromoblastomycosis Caused Predominantly by _Fonsecaea nubica_ , Madagascar 

T. Rasamoelina et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zoonotic Alphaviruses in Fatal and Neurologic Infections in Wildlife and Nonequine Domestic Animals, South Africa 

J. Steyn et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Invasive Group B _Streptococcus_ Infections in Adults, England, 2015â2016 

S. M. Collin et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Failures of 13-Valent Conjugated Pneumococcal Vaccine in Age-Appropriately Vaccinated Children 2â59 Months of Age 

S. HernÃ¡ndez et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 from Patient with 2019 Novel Coronavirus Disease, United States

J. Harcourt et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

The etiologic agent of an outbreak of pneumonia in Wuhan, China, was
identified as severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 in January 2020.
A patient in the United States was given a diagnosis of infection with this
virus by the state of Washington and the US Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention on January 20, 2020. We isolated virus from nasopharyngeal and
oropharyngeal specimens from this patient and characterized the viral
sequence, replication properties, and cell culture tropism. We found that the
virus replicates to high titer in Vero-CCL81 cells and Vero E6 cells in the
absence of trypsin. We also deposited the virus into 2 virus repositories,
making it broadly available to the public health and research communities. We
hope that open access to this reagent will expedite development of medical
countermeasures.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Estimating Risk for Death from 2019 Novel Coronavirus Disease, China, JanuaryâFebruary 2020

K. Mizumoto and G. Chowell ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-
expand.gif) View Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email
this Article

Since December 2019, when the first case of 2019 novel coronavirus disease
(COVID-19) was identified in the city of Wuhan in the Hubei Province of China,
the epidemic has generated tens of thousands of cases throughout China. As of
February 28, 2020, the cumulative number of reported deaths in China was
2,858. We estimated the time-delay adjusted risk for death from COVID-19 in
Wuhan, as well as for China excluding Wuhan, to assess the severity of the
epidemic in the country. Our estimates of the risk for death in Wuhan reached
values as high as 12% in the epicenter of the epidemic and â1% in other,
more mildly affected areas. The elevated death risk estimates are probably
associated with a breakdown of the healthcare system, indicating that enhanced
public health interventions, including social distancing and movement
restrictions, should be implemented to bring the COVID-19 epidemic under
control.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Epidemiology of 2019 Novel Coronavirus Disease-19 in Gansu Province, China, 2020

J. Fan et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

To determine the epidemiology of 2019 novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19) in
a remote region of China, far from Wuhan, we analyzed the epidemiology of
COVID-19 in Gansu Province. From January 23 through February 3, 2020, a total
of 35 (64.8%) of 54 reported cases were imported from COVID-19âepidemic
areas. Characteristics that differed significantly during the first and second
waves of illness in Gansu Province were mean patient age, occupation, having
visited epidemic areas, and mode of transportation. Time from infection to
illness onset for family clusters was shorter in Gansu Province than in Wuhan,
consistent with shortened durations from onset to first medical visit or
hospitalization. Spatial distribution pattern analysis indicated hot spots and
spatial outliers in Gansu Province. As a result of adequate interventions,
transmission of the COVID-19 virus in Gansu Province is decreasing.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Temporary Fertility Decline after a Large Rubella Outbreak, Japan 

K. Mizumoto and G. Chowell

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Characterization of Sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease and History of Neurosurgery to Identify Potential Iatrogenic Cases 

T. Hamaguchi et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Statin Use and Influenza Vaccine Effectiveness in Persons >65 Years of Age, Taiwan 

L. Tsai et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Unexpected Genetic Diversity and Emergence of New Non-CG258 High-Risk Clones among KPC-Producing _Klebsiella pneumoniae_ , France 

R. A. Bonnin et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Increased Risk for Carbapenem-Resistant _Enterobacteriaceae_ Colonization in Intensive Care Units 

M. SalomÃ£o et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Antimicrobial Resistance in _Salmonella enterica_ Serovar Paratyphi B Variant Java in Poultry from Europe and Latin America 

L. Castellanos et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Multihost Transmission of _Schistosoma mansoni_ in Senegal 

S. Catalano et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Distribution of Group A Streptococcus Pharyngitis and Acute Rheumatic Fever, Auckland, New Zealand, 2010â2016 

J. Oliver et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ectoparasites and Vectorborne Zoonotic Pathogens of Dogs and Cats in Asia, 2017â2018 

V. Colella et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Radical Change in Zoonotic Abilities of Atypical BSE Prion Strains as Evidenced by Crossing of Sheep Species Barrier in Transgenic Mice 

A. MarÃ­n-Moreno et al.

##### Historical Review

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syphilis in Maria Salviati (1499â1543), Wife of Giovanni deâ Medici of the Black Bands 

A. Fornaciari et al.

##### Dispatches

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Leishmania infantum_ in Tigers and Sand Flies from a Leishmaniasis-Endemic Area, Southern Italy 

R. Iatta et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Melioidosis in a Resident of Texas with No Recent Travel History, United States 

C. M. Cossaboom et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * High Prevalence of _Escherichia albertii_ in Raccoons ( _Procyon lotor_ ), Japan 

A. Hinenoya et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cannabis Use and Fungal Infections in a Commercially Insured Population, United States, 2016 

K. Benedict et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Origin of 3 Rabid Terrestrial Animals in Raccoon Rabies-Free Zone, Long Island, New York, USA, 2016â2017 

S. Brunt et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Community Transmission of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2, Shenzhen, China, 2020

J. Liu et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Since early January 2020, after the outbreak of 2019 novel coronavirus
infection in Wuhan, China, â365 confirmed cases have been reported in
Shenzhen, China. The mode of community and intrafamily transmission is
threatening residents in Shenzhen. Strategies to strengthen prevention and
interruption of these transmissions should be urgently addressed.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * No Adaption of the Prion Strain in a Heterozygous Case of Variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease 

A. Boyle et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Yaws Disease Caused by _Treponema pallidum_ subsp. _pertenue_ in Wild chimpanzee ( _Pan troglodytes verus_ ), Guinea, 2019 

B. Mubemba et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fatal Encephalitis Caused by Cristoli Virus, an Emerging Orthobunyavirus, France 

C. Rodriguez et al.

##### Research Letters

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Serial Interval of COVID-19 among Publicly Reported Confirmed Cases

Z. Du et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

We estimate the distribution of serial intervals for 468 confirmed cases of
2019 novel coronavirus disease reported in China as of February 8, 2020. The
mean interval was 3.96 days (95% CI 3.53â4.39 days), SD 4.75 days (95% CI
4.46â5.07 days); 12.6% of case reports indicated presymptomatic
transmission.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * COVID-19 in 2 Persons with Mild Upper Respiratory Tract Symptoms on a Cruise Ship, Japan

T. Arashiro et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

We describe 2 cases of COVID-19 in patients with mild upper respiratory
symptoms. Both patients worked on a cruise ship quarantined off the coast of
Japan. One patient had persistent, low-grade upper respiratory tract symptoms
without fever. The other patient had rapid symptom cessation but persistent
viral RNA detection.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Lack of Vertical Transmission of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2, China

Y. Li et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

A woman with 2019 novel coronavirus disease in her 35th week of pregnancy
delivered an infant by cesarean section in a negative-pressure operating room.
The infant was negative for severe acute respiratory coronavirus 2. This case
suggests that mother-to-child transmission is unlikely for this virus.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Detection of Novel Coronavirus by RT-PCR in Stool Specimen from Asymptomatic Child, China

A. Tang et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

We report an asymptomatic child who was positive for a 2019 novel coronavirus
by reverse transcription PCR in a stool specimen 17 days after the last virus
exposure. The child was virus positive in stool specimens for at least an
additional 9 days. Respiratory tract specimens were negative by reverse
transcription PCR.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Co-infection with SARS-CoV-2 and Influenza A Virus in Patient with Pneumonia, China

X. Wu et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

We report co-infection with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2
(SARS-CoV-2) and influenza A virus in a patient with pneumonia in China. The
case highlights possible co-detection of known respiratory viruses. We noted
low sensitivity of upper respiratory specimens for SARS-CoV-2, which could
further complicate recognition of the full extent of disease.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Case-Fatality Risk Estimates for COVID-19 Calculated by Using a Lag Time for Fatality

N. Wilson et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

We estimated the case-fatality risk for 2019 novel coronavirus disease cases
in China (3.5%); China, excluding Hubei Province (0.8%); 82 countries,
territories, and areas (4.2%); and on a cruise ship (0.6%). Lower estimates
might be closest to the true value, but a broad range of 0.25%â3.0% probably
should be considered.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Indirect Virus Transmission in Cluster of COVID-19 Cases, Wenzhou, China, 2020

J. Cai et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

To determine possible modes of virus transmission, we investigated a cluster
of COVID-19 cases associated with a shopping mall in Wenzhou, China. Data
indicated that indirect transmission of the causative virus occurred, perhaps
resulting from virus contamination of common objects, virus aerosolization in
a confined space, or spread from asymptomatic infected persons.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Donor-Derived Transmission of _Cryptococcus gattii_ sensu lato in Kidney Transplant Tecipients 

D. Santos et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * SabiÃ¡-like Mammarenavirus in Patient with Fatal Hemorrhagic Fever, Brazil, 2020 

F. de Mello Malta et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Incursions of _Candida auris_ into Australia, 2018

C. R. Lane et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

_Candida auris_ is an emerging global healthcare-associated pathogen. During
JulyâDecember 2018, four patients with _C. auris_ were identified in
Victoria, Australia, all with previous overseas hospitalization. Phylogenetic
analysis revealed putative transmission between 2 patients and suspected
overseas acquisition in the others. Vigilant screening of at-risk patients is
required.

##### Books and Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Pandemic Century: One Hundred Years of Panic, Hysteria, and Hubris 

N. M. Mâikanatha

Top

#### Volume 26, Number 7âJuly 2020

##### Synopses

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Case Manifestations and Public Health Response for Outbreak of Meningococcal W Disease, Central Australia 

E. L. Sudbury et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Macrolide-Resistant _Mycoplasma pneumoniae_ Infections in Pediatric Community-Acquired Pneumonia 

Y. Chen et al.

##### Research

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Identifying Locations with Possible Undetected Imported Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 Cases by Using Importation Predictions

P. De Salazar et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Cases of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2)
infection exported from mainland China could lead to self-sustained outbreaks
in other countries. By February 2020, several countries were reporting
imported SARS-CoV-2 cases. To contain the virus, early detection of imported
SARS-CoV-2 cases is critical. We used air travel volume estimates from Wuhan,
China, to international destinations and a generalized linear regression model
to identify locations that could have undetected imported cases. Our model can
be adjusted to account for exportation of cases from other locations as the
virus spreads and more information on importations and transmission becomes
available. Early detection and appropriate control measures can reduce the
risk for transmission in all locations.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Atypical Manifestations of Cat-Scratch Disease, United States, 2005â2014 

C. C. Nawrocki et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2âSpecific Antibody Responses in 2019 Novel Coronavirus Disease Patients 

N. Okba et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Bat and Lyssavirus Exposure among Humans in Region that Celebrates a Bat Festival, Nigeria, 2010 and 2013 

N. M. Vora et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * High Contagiousness and Rapid Spread of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2

S. Sanche et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 is the causative agent of the
2019 novel coronavirus disease pandemic. Initial estimates of the early
dynamics of the outbreak in Wuhan, China, suggested a doubling time of the
number of infected persons of 6â7 days and a basic reproductive number (R0)
of 2.2â2.7. We collected extensive individual case reports across China and
estimated key epidemiologic parameters, including the incubation period. We
then designed 2 mathematical modeling approaches to infer the outbreak
dynamics in Wuhan by using high-resolution domestic travel and infection data.
Results show that the doubling time early in the epidemic in Wuhan was
2.3â3.3 days. Assuming a serial interval of 6â9 days, we calculated a
median R0 value of 5.7 (95% CI 3.8â8.9). We further show that active
surveillance, contact tracing, quarantine, and early strong social distancing
efforts are needed to stop transmission of the virus.

##### Policy Review

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policy Decisions and Use of Information Technology to Fight 2019 Novel Coronavirus Disease, Taiwan

C. Lin et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Because of its proximity to and frequent travelers to and from China, Taiwan
faces complex challenges in preventing 2019 novel coronavirus disease
(COVID-19). As soon as China reported the unidentified outbreak to the World
Health Organization on December 31, 2019, Taiwan assembled a taskforce and
began health checks onboard flights from Wuhan. Taiwanâs rapid
implementation of disease prevention measures helped detect and isolate the
countryâs first COVID-19 case on January 20, 2020. Laboratories in Taiwan
developed 4-hour test kits and isolated 2 strains of the coronavirus before
February. Taiwan effectively delayed and contained community transmission by
leveraging experience from the 2003 severe acute respiratory syndrome
outbreak, prevalent public awareness, a robust public health network, support
from healthcare industries, cross-departmental collaborations, and advanced
information technology capacity. We analyze use of the National Health
Insurance database and critical policy decisions made by Taiwanâs government
during the first 50 days of the COVID-19 outbreak.

##### Dispatches

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Early Introduction of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 into Europe

S. J. Olsen et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Early infections with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 in
Europe were detected in travelers from Wuhan, China, in January 2020. In 1
tour group, 5 of 30 members were ill; 3 cases were laboratory confirmed. In
addition, a healthcare worker was infected. This event documents early
importation and subsequent spread of the virus in Europe.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Shuni Virus in Wildlife and Nonequine Domestic Animals, South Africa 

J. Steyn et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Approach to Cataract in an Ebola Virus Disease Survivor with Prior Ocular Viral Persistence: Phacoemulsification Surgery, Lens Biopsy, and Laboratory Analyses 

J. R. Wells et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Transmission of Legionnairesâ Disease through Toilet Flushing 

J. Couturier et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clinical Characteristics of Patients Hospitalized with 2019 Novel Coronavirus Disease, Thailand 

W. A. Pongpirul et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clinical Management Using Ribavirin and Favipiravir for Containment of Argentine Hemorrhagic Fever, Belgium, 2020 

I. Veliziotis et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sub-Saharan Africa and Eurasia Ancestry of Reassortant Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A (H5N8) Virus, Europe, December 2019 

E. ÅwiÄtoÅ et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Community Responses during Early Phase of COVID-19 Epidemic, Hong Kong 

K. O. Kwok et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Inactivation of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 by Recommended Hand Rub Formulations and Alcohols 

A. Kratzel et al.

##### Research Letters

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika Virus Detection with 2013 Serosurvey, Mombasa, Kenya 

E. Hunsperger et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Rhabdomyolysis as Potential Late Complication Associated with COVID-19

M. Jin and Q. Tong ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

We describe a patient in Wuhan, China, with severe acute respiratory syndrome
coronavirus 2 infection who had progressive pulmonary lesions and
rhabdomyolysis with manifestations of lower limb pain and fatigue. Rapid
clinical recognition of rhabdomyolysis symptoms in patients with severe acute
respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 infection can be lifesaving.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Human Case of Severe Fever with Thrombocytopenia Syndrome Virus Infection, Taiwan, 2019 

S. Peng et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Public Mental Health Crisis during COVID-19 Pandemic, China

L. Dong and J. Bouey ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

The 2019 novel coronavirus disease emerged in China in late 2019âearly 2020
and spread rapidly. China has been implementing emergency psychological crisis
interventions to reduce the negative psychosocial impact on public mental
health, but challenges exist. Public mental health interventions should be
formally integrated into public health preparedness and emergency response
plans.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Mycobacterium bovis_ Pulmonary Tuberculosis following Ritual Sheep Sacrifice, Tunisia 

J. Saad et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Asymptomatic and Human-to-Human Transmission of SARS-CoV-2 in a 2-Family Cluster, Xuzhou, China

C. Li et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

We report epidemiologic, laboratory, and clinical findings for 7 patients with
2019 novel coronavirus disease in a 2-family cluster. Our study confirms
asymptomatic and human-to-human transmission through close contacts in
familial and hospital settings. These findings might also serve as a practical
reference for clinical diagnosis and medical treatment.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Detection and Characterization of New Coronavirus in Bottlenose Dolphin, United States, 2019 

L. Wang et al.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 RNA Detected in Blood Donations

L. Chang et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Because of high rates of 2019 novel coronavirus disease in Wuhan, China, Wuhan
Blood Center began screening for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus
2 RNA on January 25, 2020. We screened donations in real-time and
retrospectively and found plasma samples positive for viral RNA from 4
asymptomatic donors.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 Shedding by Travelers, Vietnam, 2020

T. Le et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

We analyzed 2 clusters of 12 patients in Vietnam with severe acute respiratory
syndrome coronavirus 2 infection during JanuaryâFebruary 2020. Analysis
indicated virus transmission from a traveler from China. One asymptomatic
patient demonstrated virus shedding, indicating potential virus transmission
in the absence of clinical signs and symptoms.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * COVID-19 Outbreak Associated with Air Conditioning in Restaurant, Guangzhou, China, 2020

J. Lu et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

During January 26âFebruary 10, 2020, an outbreak of 2019 novel coronavirus
disease in an air-conditioned restaurant in Guangzhou, China, involved 3
family clusters. The airflow direction was consistent with droplet
transmission. To prevent the spread of the virus in restaurants, we recommend
increasing the distance between tables and improving ventilation.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Lesions of _Mycobacterium avium_ spp. _hominissuis_ infection in a wild mule deer resemble _Mycobacterium bovis_

K. Frayne et al.

Top

#### Volume 26, Number 8âAugust 2020

##### Synopsis

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Epidemiology of Legionnairesâ Disease, Hong Kong, China, 2005â2015 

Y. Leung et al.

Top

_Select an issue from the drop down below and select "Load Issue" to view the
table of contents._

Volume 26, Number 3âMarch 2020 Volume 26, Number 2âFebruary 2020 Volume
26, Number 1âJanuary 2020 Volume 25, Number 12âDecember 2019 Volume 25,
Number 11âNovember 2019 Volume 25, Number 10âOctober 2019 Volume 25,
Number 9âSeptember 2019 Volume 25, Number 8âAugust 2019 Volume 25, Number
7âJuly 2019 Volume 25, Number 6âJune 2019 Volume 25, Number 5âMay 2019
Volume 25, Number 4âApril 2019 Volume 25, Number 3âMarch 2019 Volume 25,
Number 2âFebruary 2019 Volume 25, Number 1âJanuary 2019 Volume 24, Number
12âDecember 2018 Volume 24, Number 11âNovember 2018 Volume 24, Number
10âOctober 2018 Volume 24, Number 9âSeptember 2018 Volume 24, Number
8âAugust 2018 Volume 24, Number 7âJuly 2018 Volume 24, Number 6âJune
2018 Volume 24, Number 5âMay 2018 Volume 24, Number 4âApril 2018 Volume
24, Number 3âMarch 2018 Volume 24, Number 2âFebruary 2018 Volume 24,
Number 1âJanuary 2018 Volume 23âGlobal Health Security Supplement Volume
23, Number 12âDecember 2017 Volume 23, Number 11âNovember 2017 Volume 23,
Number 10âOctober 2017 Volume 23, Number 9âSeptember 2017 Volume 23,
Number 8âAugust 2017 Volume 23, Number 7âJuly 2017 Volume 23, Number
6âJune 2017 Volume 23, Number 5âMay 2017 Volume 23, Number 4âApril 2017
Volume 23, Number 3âMarch 2017 Volume 23, Number 2âFebruary 2017 Volume
23, Number 1âJanuary 2017 Volume 22, Number 12âDecember 2016 Volume 22,
Number 11âNovember 2016 Volume 22, Number 10âOctober 2016 Volume 22,
Number 9âSeptember 2016 Volume 22, Number 8âAugust 2016 Volume 22, Number
7âJuly 2016 Volume 22, Number 6âJune 2016 Volume 22, Number 5âMay 2016
Volume 22, Number 4âApril 2016 Volume 22, Number 3âMarch 2016 Volume 22,
Number 2âFebruary 2016 Volume 22, Number 1âJanuary 2016 Volume 21, Number
12âDecember 2015 Volume 21, Number 11âNovember 2015 Volume 21, Number
10âOctober 2015 Volume 21, Number 9âSeptember 2015 Volume 21, Number
8âAugust 2015 Volume 21, Number 7âJuly 2015 Volume 21, Number 6âJune
2015 Volume 21, Number 5âMay 2015 Volume 21, Number 4âApril 2015 Volume
21, Number 3âMarch 2015 Volume 21, Number 2âFebruary 2015 Volume 21,
Number 1âJanuary 2015 Volume 20, Number 12âDecember 2014 Volume 20, Number
11âNovember 2014 Volume 20, Number 10âOctober 2014 Volume 20, Number
9âSeptember 2014 Volume 20, Number 8âAugust 2014 Volume 20, Number
7âJuly 2014 Volume 20, Number 6âJune 2014 Volume 20, Number 5âMay 2014
Volume 20, Number 4âApril 2014 Volume 20, Number 3âMarch 2014 Volume 20,
Number 2âFebruary 2014 Volume 20, Number 1âJanuary 2014 Volume 19, Number
12âDecember 2013 Volume 19, Number 11âNovember 2013 Volume 19, Number
10âOctober 2013 Volume 19, Number 9âSeptember 2013 Volume 19, Number
8âAugust 2013 Volume 19, Number 7âJuly 2013 Volume 19, Number 6âJune
2013 Volume 19, Number 5âMay 2013 Volume 19, Number 4âApril 2013 Volume
19, Number 3âMarch 2013 Volume 19, Number 2âFebruary 2013 Volume 19,
Number 1âJanuary 2013 Volume 18, Number 12âDecember 2012 Volume 18, Number
11âNovember 2012 Volume 18, Number 10âOctober 2012 Volume 18, Number
9âSeptember 2012 Volume 18, Number 8âAugust 2012 Volume 18, Number
7âJuly 2012 Volume 18, Number 6âJune 2012 Volume 18, Number 5âMay 2012
Volume 18, Number 4âApril 2012 Volume 18, Number 3âMarch 2012 Volume 18,
Number 2âFebruary 2012 Volume 18, Number 1âJanuary 2012 Volume 17, Number
12âDecember 2011 Volume 17, Number 11âNovember 2011 Volume 17, Number
10âOctober 2011 Volume 17, Number 9âSeptember 2011 Volume 17, Number
8âAugust 2011 Volume 17, Number 7âJuly 2011 Volume 17, Number 6âJune
2011 Volume 17, Number 5âMay 2011 Volume 17, Number 4âApril 2011 Volume
17, Number 3âMarch 2011 Volume 17, Number 2âFebruary 2011 Volume 17,
Number 1âJanuary 2011 Volume 16, Number 12âDecember 2010 Volume 16, Number
11âNovember 2010 Volume 16, Number 10âOctober 2010 Volume 16, Number
9âSeptember 2010 Volume 16, Number 8âAugust 2010 Volume 16, Number
7âJuly 2010 Volume 16, Number 6âJune 2010 Volume 16, Number 5âMay 2010
Volume 16, Number 4âApril 2010 Volume 16, Number 3âMarch 2010 Volume 16,
Number 2âFebruary 2010 Volume 16, Number 1âJanuary 2010 Volume 15, Number
12âDecember 2009 Volume 15, Number 11âNovember 2009 Volume 15, Number
10âOctober 2009 Volume 15, Number 9âSeptember 2009 Volume 15, Number
8âAugust 2009 Volume 15, Number 7âJuly 2009 Volume 15, Number 6âJune
2009 Volume 15, Number 5âMay 2009 Volume 15, Number 4âApril 2009 Volume
15, Number 3âMarch 2009 Volume 15, Number 2âFebruary 2009 Volume 15,
Number 1âJanuary 2009 Volume 14, Number 12âDecember 2008 Volume 14, Number
11âNovember 2008 Volume 14, Number 10âOctober 2008 Volume 14, Number
9âSeptember 2008 Volume 14, Number 8âAugust 2008 Volume 14, Number
7âJuly 2008 Volume 14, Number 6âJune 2008 Volume 14, Number 5âMay 2008
Volume 14, Number 4âApril 2008 Volume 14, Number 3âMarch 2008 Volume 14,
Number 2âFebruary 2008 Volume 14, Number 1âJanuary 2008 Volume 13, Number
12âDecember 2007 Volume 13, Number 11âNovember 2007 Volume 13, Number
10âOctober 2007 Volume 13, Number 9âSeptember 2007 Volume 13, Number
8âAugust 2007 Volume 13, Number 7âJuly 2007 Volume 13, Number 6âJune
2007 Volume 13, Number 5âMay 2007 Volume 13, Number 4âApril 2007 Volume
13, Number 3âMarch 2007 Volume 13, Number 2âFebruary 2007 Volume 13,
Number 1âJanuary 2007 Volume 12, Number 12âDecember 2006 Volume 12, Number
11âNovember 2006 Volume 12, Number 10âOctober 2006 Volume 12, Number
9âSeptember 2006 Volume 12, Number 8âAugust 2006 Volume 12, Number
7âJuly 2006 Volume 12, Number 6âJune 2006 Volume 12, Number 5âMay 2006
Volume 12, Number 4âApril 2006 Volume 12, Number 3âMarch 2006 Volume 12,
Number 2âFebruary 2006 Volume 12, Number 1âJanuary 2006 Volume 11, Number
12âDecember 2005 Volume 11, Number 11âNovember 2005 Volume 11, Number
10âOctober 2005 Volume 11, Number 9âSeptember 2005 Volume 11, Number
8âAugust 2005 Volume 11, Number 7âJuly 2005 Volume 11, Number 6âJune
2005 Volume 11, Number 5âMay 2005 Volume 11, Number 4âApril 2005 Volume
11, Number 3âMarch 2005 Volume 11, Number 2âFebruary 2005 Volume 11,
Number 1âJanuary 2005 Volume 10, Number 12âDecember 2004 Volume 10, Number
11âNovember 2004 Volume 10, Number 10âOctober 2004 Volume 10, Number
9âSeptember 2004 Volume 10, Number 8âAugust 2004 Volume 10, Number
7âJuly 2004 Volume 10, Number 6âJune 2004 Volume 10, Number 5âMay 2004
Volume 10, Number 4âApril 2004 Volume 10, Number 3âMarch 2004 Volume 10,
Number 2âFebruary 2004 Volume 10, Number 1âJanuary 2004 Volume 9, Number
12âDecember 2003 Volume 9, Number 11âNovember 2003 Volume 9, Number
10âOctober 2003 Volume 9, Number 9âSeptember 2003 Volume 9, Number
8âAugust 2003 Volume 9, Number 7âJuly 2003 Volume 9, Number 6âJune 2003
Volume 9, Number 5âMay 2003 Volume 9, Number 4âApril 2003 Volume 9, Number
3âMarch 2003 Volume 9, Number 2âFebruary 2003 Volume 9, Number 1âJanuary
2003 Volume 8, Number 12âDecember 2002 Volume 8, Number 11âNovember 2002
Volume 8, Number 10âOctober 2002 Volume 8, Number 9âSeptember 2002 Volume
8, Number 8âAugust 2002 Volume 8, Number 7âJuly 2002 Volume 8, Number
6âJune 2002 Volume 8, Number 5âMay 2002 Volume 8, Number 4âApril 2002
Volume 8, Number 3âMarch 2002 Volume 8, Number 2âFebruary 2002 Volume 8,
Number 1âJanuary 2002 Volume 7, Number 6âDecember 2001 Volume 7, Number
5âOctober 2001 Volume 7, Number 4âAugust 2001 Volume 7, Number 7âJune
2001 Volume 7, Number 3âJune 2001 Volume 7, Number 2âApril 2001 Volume 7,
Number 1âFebruary 2001 Volume 6, Number 6âDecember 2000 Volume 6, Number
5âOctober 2000 Volume 6, Number 4âAugust 2000 Volume 6, Number 3âJune
2000 Volume 6, Number 2âApril 2000 Volume 6, Number 1âFebruary 2000 Volume
5, Number 6âDecember 1999 Volume 5, Number 5âOctober 1999 Volume 5, Number
4âAugust 1999 Volume 5, Number 3âJune 1999 Volume 5, Number 2âApril 1999
Volume 5, Number 1âFebruary 1999 Volume 4, Number 4âDecember 1998 Volume
4, Number 3âSeptember 1998 Volume 4, Number 2âJune 1998 Volume 4, Number
1âMarch 1998 Volume 3, Number 4âDecember 1997 Volume 3, Number
3âSeptember 1997 Volume 3, Number 2âJune 1997 Volume 3, Number 1âMarch
1997 Volume 2, Number 4âOctober 1996 Volume 2, Number 3âJuly 1996 Volume
2, Number 2âApril 1996 Volume 2, Number 1âJanuary 1996 Volume 1, Number
4âOctober 1995 Volume 1, Number 3âJuly 1995 Volume 1, Number 2âApril
1995 Volume 1, Number 1âJanuary 1995 Load Issue

####

Medscape, LLC is pleased to provide online continuing medical education (CME)
for selected journal articles, allowing clinicians the opportunity to earn CME
credit. In support of improving patient care, these activities have been
planned and implemented by Medscape, LLC and Emerging Infectious Diseases.
Medscape, LLC is jointly accredited by the Accreditation Council for
Continuing Medical Education (ACCME), the Accreditation Council for Pharmacy
Education (ACPE), and the American Nurses Credentialing Center (ANCC), to
provide continuing education for the healthcare team.  
  
CME credit is available for one year after publication.

#### Active CME Articles

* * *

Expires 3/13/2021

Medscape CME Activity

**Ecology and Epidemiology of Tickborne Pathogens, Washington, USA,
2011â2016 ** [PDF - 2.68 MB - 10 pages]

E. A. Dykstra et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Tickborne diseases are rare in Washington, USA, and the ecology of these
pathogens is poorly understood. We integrated surveillance data from humans
and ticks to better describe their epidemiology and ecology. During
2011â2016, a total of 202 tickborne disease cases were reported in
Washington residents. Of these, 68 (34%) were autochthonous, including cases
of Lyme disease, Rocky Mountain spotted fever, tickborne relapsing fever, and
tularemia. During May 2011âDecember 2016, we collected 977 host-seeking
ticks, including _Ixodes pacificus_ , _I. angustus_ , _I. spinipalpis_ , _I.
auritulus_ , _Dermacentor andersoni_ , and _D. variabilis_ ticks. The
prevalence of _Borrelia burgdorferi_ sensu stricto in _I. pacificus_ ticks was
4.0%; of _B. burgdorferi_ sensu lato, 3.8%; of _B. miyamotoi_ , 4.4%; and of
_Anaplasma phagocytophilum_ , 1.9%. We did not detect _Rickettsia rickettsii_
in either _Dermacentor_ species. Case-patient histories and detection of
pathogens in field-collected ticks indicate that several tickborne pathogens
are endemic to Washington.

EID | Dykstra EA, Oltean HN, Kangiser D, Marsden-Haug N, Rich SM, Xu G, et al.
Ecology and Epidemiology of Tickborne Pathogens, Washington, USA, 2011â2016.
Emerg Infect Dis. 2020;26(4):648-657.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.191382  
---|---  
AMA | Dykstra EA, Oltean HN, Kangiser D, et al. Ecology and Epidemiology of
Tickborne Pathogens, Washington, USA, 2011â2016. _Emerging Infectious
Diseases_. 2020;26(4):648-657. doi:10.3201/eid2604.191382.  
APA | Dykstra, E. A., Oltean, H. N., Kangiser, D., Marsden-Haug, N., Rich, S.
M., Xu, G....Eisen, R. J. (2020). Ecology and Epidemiology of Tickborne
Pathogens, Washington, USA, 2011â2016. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _26_
(4), 648-657. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2604.191382.  
  
* * *

Expires 2/19/2021

Medscape CME Activity

**Clinical Characteristics of Disseminated Strongyloidiasis, Japan,
1975â2017 ** [PDF - 1.51 MB - 8 pages]

M. Mukaigawara et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif)
View Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Clinical characteristics of disseminated strongyloidiasis, the severest form
of strongyloidiasis, are not well described. We conducted a retrospective,
consecutive chart review of patients with disseminated strongyloidiasis
admitted to Okinawa Chubu Hospital in Okinawa, Japan, during January
1975âDecember 2017. The 70 patients were classified into 3 clinical
phenotypes: dissemination (32 patients [45.7%]), occult dissemination with
meningitis caused by enteric organisms (12 patients [17.1%]), and occult
dissemination with culture-negative suppurative meningitis (26 patients
[37.1%]). Associated mortality rates were 56.3%, 16.7%, and 11.5%,
respectively, and sepsis occurred in 40.6%, 58.3%, and 11.5% of cases,
respectively. Common symptoms included fever (52.9% of patients), headache
(32.9%), and altered mental status (24.3%). Patients were treated with
thiabendazole (before 2003) or ivermectin (after 2003). Our findings show that
disseminated strongyloidiasis has clinical phenotypes in terms of severity and
that identification of occult dissemination, a mild form with prominent
neurologic manifestations, is lifesaving.

EID | Mukaigawara M, Narita M, Shiiki S, Takayama Y, Takakura S, Kishaba T.
Clinical Characteristics of Disseminated Strongyloidiasis, Japan, 1975â2017.
Emerg Infect Dis. 2020;26(3):401-408.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2603.190571  
---|---  
AMA | Mukaigawara M, Narita M, Shiiki S, et al. Clinical Characteristics of
Disseminated Strongyloidiasis, Japan, 1975â2017. _Emerging Infectious
Diseases_. 2020;26(3):401-408. doi:10.3201/eid2603.190571.  
APA | Mukaigawara, M., Narita, M., Shiiki, S., Takayama, Y., Takakura, S., &
Kishaba, T. (2020). Clinical Characteristics of Disseminated Strongyloidiasis,
Japan, 1975â2017. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _26_ (3), 401-408.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2603.190571.  
  
* * *

Expires 2/19/2021

Medscape CME Activity

**Epidemiology of Cryptosporidiosis, New York City, New York, USA, 1995â2018
** [PDF - 1.22 MB - 11 pages]

L. Alleyne et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Cryptosporidiosis is a parasitic diarrheal infection that is transmitted by
the fecalâoral route. We assessed trends in incidence and demographic
characteristics for the 3,984 cases diagnosed during 1995â2018 in New York
City, New York, USA, and reported to the New York City Department of Health
and Mental Hygiene. Reported cryptosporidiosis incidence decreased with
HIV/AIDS treatment rollout in the mid-1990s, but the introduction of syndromic
multiplex diagnostic panels in 2015 led to a major increase in incidence and
to a shift in the demographic profile of reported patients. Incidence was
highest among men 20â59 years of age, who consistently represented most
(54%) reported patients. In addition, 30% of interviewed patients reported
recent international travel. The burden of cryptosporidiosis in New York City
is probably highest among men who have sex with men. Prevention messaging is
warranted for men who have sex with men and their healthcare providers, as
well as for international travelers.

EID | Alleyne L, Fitzhenry R, Mergen KA, Espina N, Amoroso E, Cimini D, et al.
Epidemiology of Cryptosporidiosis, New York City, New York, USA, 1995â2018.
Emerg Infect Dis. 2020;26(3):409-419.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2603.190785  
---|---  
AMA | Alleyne L, Fitzhenry R, Mergen KA, et al. Epidemiology of
Cryptosporidiosis, New York City, New York, USA, 1995â2018. _Emerging
Infectious Diseases_. 2020;26(3):409-419. doi:10.3201/eid2603.190785.  
APA | Alleyne, L., Fitzhenry, R., Mergen, K. A., Espina, N., Amoroso, E.,
Cimini, D....Thompson, C. N. (2020). Epidemiology of Cryptosporidiosis, New
York City, New York, USA, 1995â2018. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _26_
(3), 409-419. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2603.190785.  
  
* * *

Expires 2/12/2021

Medscape CME Activity

**Methicillin-Resistant _Staphylococcus aureus_ Bloodstream Infections and
Injection Drug Use, Tennessee, USA, 2015â2017 ** [PDF - 941 KB - 8 pages]

M. P. Parikh et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Recently, Tennessee, USA, has seen an increase in the use of commonly injected
drugs, such as heroin and fentanyl. Injection drug use (IDU) practices can
lead to life-threatening methicillin-resistant _Staphylococcus aureus_ (MRSA)
bloodstream infections (BSIs) and other serious diseases. We matched MRSA BSIs
identified through the National Healthcare Safety Network to the Tennessee
Hospital Discharge Data System to characterize the prevalence, demographics,
and clinical characteristics associated with IDU in this disease population.
Of the 7,646 MRSA BSIs identified during 2015â2017, we found that 1,839
(24.1%) were IDU-related. IDU-related BSIs increased by 118.9%; the greatest
rise occurred among emergency departmentâonset infections (197.4%). IDU was
more often associated with white, female, 18â49-year-old, and uninsured
persons (p<0.001). We found >1 additional IDU-related diagnoses in 84.2% of
IDU-related BSIs. Targeted harm reduction strategies for persons at high risk
of IDU are necessary to reduce MRSA BSIs in acute care settings.

EID | Parikh MP, Octaria R, Kainer MA. Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus
aureus Bloodstream Infections and Injection Drug Use, Tennessee, USA,
2015â2017. Emerg Infect Dis. 2020;26(3):446-453.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2603.191408  
---|---  
AMA | Parikh MP, Octaria R, Kainer MA. Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus
aureus Bloodstream Infections and Injection Drug Use, Tennessee, USA,
2015â2017. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_. 2020;26(3):446-453.
doi:10.3201/eid2603.191408.  
APA | Parikh, M. P., Octaria, R., & Kainer, M. A. (2020). Methicillin-
Resistant Staphylococcus aureus Bloodstream Infections and Injection Drug Use,
Tennessee, USA, 2015â2017. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _26_ (3),
446-453. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2603.191408.  
  
* * *

Expires 1/16/2021

Medscape CME Activity

**Illness Severity in Hospitalized Influenza Patients by Virus Type and
Subtype, Spain, 2010â2017 ** [PDF - 1.08 MB - 9 pages]

C. Delgado-Sanz et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif)
View Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

We conducted a retrospective cohort study to assess the effect of influenza
virus type and subtype on disease severity among hospitalized influenza
patients in Spain. We analyzed the cases of 8,985 laboratory-confirmed case-
patients hospitalized for severe influenza by using data from a national
surveillance system for the period 2010â2017. Hospitalized patients with
influenza A(H1N1)pdm09 virus were significantly younger, more frequently had
class III obesity, and had a higher risk for pneumonia or acute respiratory
distress syndrome than patients infected with influenza A(H3N2) or B (p<0.05).
Hospitalized patients with influenza A(H1N1)pdm09 also had a higher risk for
intensive care unit admission, death, or both than patients with influenza
A(H3N2) or B, independent of other factors. Determining the patterns of
influenza-associated severity and how they might differ by virus type and
subtype can help guide planning and implementation of adequate control and
preventive measures during influenza epidemics.

EID | Delgado-Sanz C, Mazagatos-Ateca C, Oliva J, Gherasim A, Larrauri A.
Illness Severity in Hospitalized Influenza Patients by Virus Type and Subtype,
Spain, 2010â2017. Emerg Infect Dis. 2020;26(2):220-228.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2602.181732  
---|---  
AMA | Delgado-Sanz C, Mazagatos-Ateca C, Oliva J, et al. Illness Severity in
Hospitalized Influenza Patients by Virus Type and Subtype, Spain, 2010â2017.
_Emerging Infectious Diseases_. 2020;26(2):220-228.
doi:10.3201/eid2602.181732.  
APA | Delgado-Sanz, C., Mazagatos-Ateca, C., Oliva, J., Gherasim, A., &
Larrauri, A. (2020). Illness Severity in Hospitalized Influenza Patients by
Virus Type and Subtype, Spain, 2010â2017. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ ,
_26_ (2), 220-228. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2602.181732.  
  
* * *

Expires 1/16/2021

Medscape CME Activity

**Acute Toxoplasmosis among Canadian Deer Hunters Associated with Consumption
of Undercooked Deer Meat Hunted in the United States ** [PDF - 1.11 MB - 7
pages]

C. Gaulin et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

We conducted a recent investigation in Quebec, Canada, concerning Canadian
deer hunters who went to the United States to hunt deer and returned with
symptoms of fever, severe headache, myalgia, and articular pain of
undetermined etiology. Further investigation identified that a group of 10
hunters from Quebec attended a hunting retreat in Illinois (USA) during
November 22âDecember 4, 2018. Six of the 10 hunters had similar symptoms and
illness onset dates. Serologic tests indicated a recent toxoplasmosis
infection for all symptomatic hunters, and the risk factor identified was
consumption of undercooked deer meat. Among asymptomatic hunters, 2 were
already immune to toxoplasmosis, 1 was not immune, and the immune status of 1
remains unknown. Outbreaks of acute toxoplasmosis infection are rare in North
America, but physicians should be aware that such outbreaks could become more
common.

EID | Gaulin C, Ramsay D, Thivierge K, Tataryn J, Courville A, Martin C, et
al. Acute Toxoplasmosis among Canadian Deer Hunters Associated with
Consumption of Undercooked Deer Meat Hunted in the United States. Emerg Infect
Dis. 2020;26(2):199-205. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2602.191218  
---|---  
AMA | Gaulin C, Ramsay D, Thivierge K, et al. Acute Toxoplasmosis among
Canadian Deer Hunters Associated with Consumption of Undercooked Deer Meat
Hunted in the United States. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_.
2020;26(2):199-205. doi:10.3201/eid2602.191218.  
APA | Gaulin, C., Ramsay, D., Thivierge, K., Tataryn, J., Courville, A.,
Martin, C....Dion, R. (2020). Acute Toxoplasmosis among Canadian Deer Hunters
Associated with Consumption of Undercooked Deer Meat Hunted in the United
States. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _26_ (2), 199-205.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2602.191218.  
  
* * *

Expires 1/15/2021

Medscape CME Activity

**Characteristics of Patients with Acute Flaccid Myelitis, United States,
2015â2018 ** [PDF - 671 KB - 3 pages]

N. McLaren et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Observed peaks of acute flaccid myelitis (AFM) cases have occurred biennially
since 2014 in the United States. We aimed to determine if AFM etiology
differed between peak and nonpeak years, considering that clinical features of
AFM differ by virus etiology. We compared clinical and laboratory
characteristics of AFM cases that occurred during peak (2016 and 2018, n =
366) and nonpeak (2015 and 2017, n = 50) years. AFM patients in peak years
were younger (5.2 years) than those in nonpeak years (8.3 years). A higher
percentage of patients in peak years than nonpeak years had pleocytosis (86%
vs. 60%), upper extremity involvement (33% vs. 16%), and an illness preceding
limb weakness (90% vs. 62%) and were positive for enterovirus or rhinovirus
RNA (38% vs. 16%). Enterovirus D68 infection was associated with AFM only in
peak years. Our findings suggest AFM etiology differs between peak and nonpeak
years.

EID | McLaren N, Lopez A, Kidd S, Zhang JX, Nix W, Link-Gelles R, et al.
Characteristics of Patients with Acute Flaccid Myelitis, United States,
2015â2018. Emerg Infect Dis. 2020;26(2):212-219.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2602.191453  
---|---  
AMA | McLaren N, Lopez A, Kidd S, et al. Characteristics of Patients with
Acute Flaccid Myelitis, United States, 2015â2018. _Emerging Infectious
Diseases_. 2020;26(2):212-219. doi:10.3201/eid2602.191453.  
APA | McLaren, N., Lopez, A., Kidd, S., Zhang, J. X., Nix, W., Link-Gelles,
R....Routh, J. A. (2020). Characteristics of Patients with Acute Flaccid
Myelitis, United States, 2015â2018. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _26_
(2), 212-219. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2602.191453.  
  
* * *

Expires 12/18/2020

Medscape CME Activity

**Paid Leave and Access to Telework as Work Attendance Determinants during
Acute Respiratory Illness, United States, 2017â2018 ** [PDF - 625 KB - 8
pages]

F. Ahmed et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

We assessed determinants of work attendance during the first 3 days after
onset of acute respiratory illness (ARI) among workers 19â64 years of age
who had medically attended ARI or influenza during the 2017â2018 influenza
season. The total number of days worked included days worked at the usual
workplace and days teleworked. Access to paid leave was associated with fewer
days worked overall and at the usual workplace during illness. Participants
who indicated that employees were discouraged from coming to work with
influenza-like symptoms were less likely to attend their usual workplace.
Compared with workers without a telework option, those with telework access
worked more days during illness overall, but there was no difference in days
worked at the usual workplace. Both paid leave benefits and business practices
that actively encourage employees to stay home while sick are necessary to
reduce the transmission of ARI and influenza in workplaces.

EID | Ahmed F, Kim S, Nowalk M, King JP, VanWormer JJ, Gaglani M, et al. Paid
Leave and Access to Telework as Work Attendance Determinants during Acute
Respiratory Illness, United States, 2017â2018. Emerg Infect Dis.
2020;26(1):26-33. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2601.190743  
---|---  
AMA | Ahmed F, Kim S, Nowalk M, et al. Paid Leave and Access to Telework as
Work Attendance Determinants during Acute Respiratory Illness, United States,
2017â2018. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_. 2020;26(1):26-33.
doi:10.3201/eid2601.190743.  
APA | Ahmed, F., Kim, S., Nowalk, M., King, J. P., VanWormer, J. J., Gaglani,
M....Uzicanin, A. (2020). Paid Leave and Access to Telework as Work Attendance
Determinants during Acute Respiratory Illness, United States, 2017â2018.
_Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _26_ (1), 26-33.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2601.190743.  
  
* * *

Expires 11/15/2020

Medscape CME Activity

**_Streptococcus suis_ âAssociated Meningitis, Bali, Indonesia, 2014â2017
** [PDF - 982 KB - 8 pages]

N. Susilawathi et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif)
View Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

_Streptococcus suis_ is an emerging agent of zoonotic bacterial meningitis in
Asia. We describe the epidemiology of _S. suis_ cases and clinical signs and
microbiological findings in persons with meningitis in Bali, Indonesia, using
patient data and bacterial cultures of cerebrospinal fluid collected during
2014â2017. We conducted microbiological assays using the fully automatic
VITEK 2 COMPACT system. We amplified and sequenced gene fragments of glutamate
dehydrogenase and recombination/repair protein and conducted PCR serotyping to
confirm some serotypes. Of 71 cases, 44 were confirmed as _S. suis_ ; 29
isolates were serotype 2. The average patient age was 48.1 years, and 89% of
patients were male. Seventy-seven percent of patients with confirmed cases
recovered without complications; 11% recovered with septic shock, 7% with
deafness, and 2% with deafness and arthritis. The case-fatality rate was 11%.
Awareness of _S. suis_ infection risk must be increased in health promotion
activities in Bali.

EID | Susilawathi N, Tarini N, Fatmawati N, Mayura P, Suryapraba A, Subrata M,
et al. Streptococcus suisâAssociated Meningitis, Bali, Indonesia,
2014â2017. Emerg Infect Dis. 2019;25(12):2235-2242.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2512.181709  
---|---  
AMA | Susilawathi N, Tarini N, Fatmawati N, et al. Streptococcus
suisâAssociated Meningitis, Bali, Indonesia, 2014â2017. _Emerging
Infectious Diseases_. 2019;25(12):2235-2242. doi:10.3201/eid2512.181709.  
APA | Susilawathi, N., Tarini, N., Fatmawati, N., Mayura, P., Suryapraba, A.,
Subrata, M....Mahardika, G. (2019). Streptococcus suisâAssociated
Meningitis, Bali, Indonesia, 2014â2017. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ ,
_25_ (12), 2235-2242. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2512.181709.  
  
* * *

Expires 11/14/2020

Medscape CME Activity

**Seroprevalence and Risk Factors Possibly Associated with Emerging Zoonotic
Vaccinia Virus in a Farming Community, Colombia ** [PDF - 467 KB - 8 pages]

A. Styczynski et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

In 2014, vaccinia virus (VACV) infections were identified among farmworkers in
CaquetÃ¡ Department, Colombia; additional cases were identified in
Cundinamarca Department in 2015. VACV, an orthopoxvirus (OPXV) used in the
smallpox vaccine, has caused sporadic bovine and human outbreaks in countries
such as Brazil and India. In response to the emergence of this disease in
Colombia, we surveyed and collected blood from 134 farmworkers and household
members from 56 farms in Cundinamarca Department. We tested serum samples for
OPXV antibodies and correlated risk factors with seropositivity by using
multivariate analyses. Fifty-two percent of farmworkers had OPXV antibodies;
this percentage decreased to 31% when we excluded persons who would have been
eligible for smallpox vaccination. The major risk factors for seropositivity
were municipality, age, smallpox vaccination scar, duration of time working on
a farm, and animals having vaccinia-like lesions. This investigation provides
evidence for possible emergence of VACV as a zoonosis in South America.

EID | Styczynski A, Burgado J, Walteros D, Usme-Ciro J, Laiton K, Farias A, et
al. Seroprevalence and Risk Factors Possibly Associated with Emerging Zoonotic
Vaccinia Virus in a Farming Community, Colombia. Emerg Infect Dis.
2019;25(12):2169-2176. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2512.181114  
---|---  
AMA | Styczynski A, Burgado J, Walteros D, et al. Seroprevalence and Risk
Factors Possibly Associated with Emerging Zoonotic Vaccinia Virus in a Farming
Community, Colombia. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_. 2019;25(12):2169-2176.
doi:10.3201/eid2512.181114.  
APA | Styczynski, A., Burgado, J., Walteros, D., Usme-Ciro, J., Laiton, K.,
Farias, A....Petersen, B. (2019). Seroprevalence and Risk Factors Possibly
Associated with Emerging Zoonotic Vaccinia Virus in a Farming Community,
Colombia. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _25_ (12), 2169-2176.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2512.181114.  
  
* * *

Expires 10/15/2020

Medscape CME Activity

**Lack of Efficacy of High-Titered Immunoglobulin in Patients with West Nile
Virus Central Nervous System Disease ** [PDF - 1004 KB - 10 pages]

J. W. Gnann et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

West Nile Virus (WNV) can result in clinically severe neurologic disease.
There is no treatment for WNV infection, but administration of anti-WNV
polyclonal human antibody has demonstrated efficacy in animal models. We
compared Omr-IgG-am, an immunoglobulin product with high titers of anti-WNV
antibody, with intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) and normal saline to assess
safety and efficacy in patients with WNV neuroinvasive disease as part of a
phase I/II, randomized, double-blind, multicenter study in North America.
During 2003â2006, a total of 62 hospitalized patients were randomized to
receive Omr-IgG-am, standard IVIG, or normal saline (3:1:1). The primary
endpoint was medication safety. Secondary endpoints were morbidity and
mortality, measured using 4 standardized assessments of cognitive and
functional status. The death rate in the study population was 12.9%. No
significant differences were found between groups receiving Omr-IgG-am
compared with IVIG or saline for either the safety or efficacy endpoints.

EID | Gnann JW, Agrawal A, Hart J, Buitrago M, Carson P, Hanfelt-Goade D, et
al. Lack of Efficacy of High-Titered Immunoglobulin in Patients with West Nile
Virus Central Nervous System Disease. Emerg Infect Dis. 2019;25(11):2064-2073.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2511.190537  
---|---  
AMA | Gnann JW, Agrawal A, Hart J, et al. Lack of Efficacy of High-Titered
Immunoglobulin in Patients with West Nile Virus Central Nervous System
Disease. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_. 2019;25(11):2064-2073.
doi:10.3201/eid2511.190537.  
APA | Gnann, J. W., Agrawal, A., Hart, J., Buitrago, M., Carson, P., Hanfelt-
Goade, D....Whitley, R. J. (2019). Lack of Efficacy of High-Titered
Immunoglobulin in Patients with West Nile Virus Central Nervous System
Disease. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _25_ (11), 2064-2073.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2511.190537.  
  
* * *

Expires 9/12/2020

Medscape CME Activity

**Case Studies and Literature Review of Pneumococcal Septic Arthritis in
Adults ** [PDF - 928 KB - 10 pages]

A. Dernoncourt et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif)
View Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

We conducted a retrospective study on all cases of pneumococcal septic
arthritis (SA) in patients >18 years of age reported to the Picardie Regional
Pneumococcal Network in France during 2005â2016. Among 1,062 cases of
invasive pneumococcal disease, we observed 16 (1.5%) SA cases. Although SA is
uncommon in adult patients, the prevalence of pneumococcal SA in the Picardie
region increased from 0.69% during 2005â2010 to 2.47% during 2011â2016
after introduction of the pneumococcal 13-valent conjugate vaccine. We
highlight the emergence of SA cases caused by the 23B serotype, which is not
covered in the vaccine.

EID | Dernoncourt A, El Samad Y, Schmidt J, Emond J, Gouraud C, Brocard A, et
al. Case Studies and Literature Review of Pneumococcal Septic Arthritis in
Adults. Emerg Infect Dis. 2019;25(10):1824-1833.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2510.181695  
---|---  
AMA | Dernoncourt A, El Samad Y, Schmidt J, et al. Case Studies and Literature
Review of Pneumococcal Septic Arthritis in Adults. _Emerging Infectious
Diseases_. 2019;25(10):1824-1833. doi:10.3201/eid2510.181695.  
APA | Dernoncourt, A., El Samad, Y., Schmidt, J., Emond, J., Gouraud, C.,
Brocard, A....Hamdad, F. (2019). Case Studies and Literature Review of
Pneumococcal Septic Arthritis in Adults. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _25_
(10), 1824-1833. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2510.181695.  
  
* * *

Expires 9/12/2020

Medscape CME Activity

**_Edwardsiella tarda_ Bacteremia, Okayama, Japan, 2005â2016 ** [PDF - 530
KB - 7 pages]

S. Kamiyama et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

_Edwardsiella tarda_ is primarily associated with gastrointestinal disease,
but an increasing number of cases involving extraintestinal disease,
especially _E. tarda_ bacteremia, have been reported. Using clinical
information of _E. tarda_ bacteremia patients identified during January
2005âDecember 2016 in Japan, we characterized the clinical epidemiology of
_E. tarda_ bacteremia. A total of 182,668 sets of blood cultures were obtained
during the study period; 40 (0.02%) sets from 26 patients were positive for
_E. tarda_. The most common clinical manifestations were hepatobiliary
infection, including cholangitis, liver abscess, and cholecystitis. Overall
30-day mortality for _E. tarda_ bacteremia was 12%, and overall 90-day
mortality was 27%. The incidence of _E. tarda_ infection did not vary by
season. We more frequently observed hepatobiliary infection in patients with
_E. tarda_ bacteremia than in patients with nonbacteremic _E. tarda_
infections. _E. tarda_ bacteremia is a rare entity that is not associated with
high rates of death.

EID | Kamiyama S, Kuriyama A, Hashimoto T. Edwardsiella tarda Bacteremia,
Okayama, Japan, 2005â2016. Emerg Infect Dis. 2019;25(10):1817-1823.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2510.180518  
---|---  
AMA | Kamiyama S, Kuriyama A, Hashimoto T. Edwardsiella tarda Bacteremia,
Okayama, Japan, 2005â2016. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_.
2019;25(10):1817-1823. doi:10.3201/eid2510.180518.  
APA | Kamiyama, S., Kuriyama, A., & Hashimoto, T. (2019). Edwardsiella tarda
Bacteremia, Okayama, Japan, 2005â2016. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _25_
(10), 1817-1823. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2510.180518.  
  
* * *

Expires 9/11/2020

Medscape CME Activity

**Risk for Invasive Streptococcal Infections among Adults Experiencing
Homelessness, Anchorage, Alaska, USA, 2002â2015 ** [PDF - 1.00 MB - 8 pages]

E. Mosites et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

The risk for invasive streptococcal infection has not been clearly quantified
among persons experiencing homelessness (PEH). We compared the incidence of
detected cases of invasive group A _Streptococcus_ infection, group B
_Streptococcus_ infection, and _Streptococcus pneumoniae_ (pneumococcal)
infection among PEH with that among the general population in Anchorage,
Alaska, USA, during 2002â2015. We used data from the Centers for Disease
Control and Preventionâs Arctic Investigations Program surveillance system,
the US Census, and the Anchorage Point-in-Time count (a yearly census of PEH).
We detected a disproportionately high incidence of invasive streptococcal
disease in Anchorage among PEH. Compared with the general population, PEH were
53.3 times as likely to have invasive group A _Streptococcus_ infection, 6.9
times as likely to have invasive group B _Streptococcus_ infection, and 36.3
times as likely to have invasive pneumococcal infection. Infection control in
shelters, pneumococcal vaccination, and infection monitoring could help
protect the health of this vulnerable group.

EID | Mosites E, Zulz T, Bruden D, Nolen L, Frick A, Castrodale L, et al. Risk
for Invasive Streptococcal Infections among Adults Experiencing Homelessness,
Anchorage, Alaska, USA, 2002â2015. Emerg Infect Dis. 2019;25(10):1903-1910.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2510.181408  
---|---  
AMA | Mosites E, Zulz T, Bruden D, et al. Risk for Invasive Streptococcal
Infections among Adults Experiencing Homelessness, Anchorage, Alaska, USA,
2002â2015. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_. 2019;25(10):1903-1910.
doi:10.3201/eid2510.181408.  
APA | Mosites, E., Zulz, T., Bruden, D., Nolen, L., Frick, A., Castrodale,
L....Bruce, M. G. (2019). Risk for Invasive Streptococcal Infections among
Adults Experiencing Homelessness, Anchorage, Alaska, USA, 2002â2015.
_Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _25_ (10), 1903-1910.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2510.181408.  
  
* * *

Expires 8/20/2020

Medscape CME Activity

**Risk for _Clostridioides difficile_ Infection among Older Adults with Cancer
** [PDF - 821 KB - 7 pages]

M. Kamboj et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

To assess whether risk for _Clostridioides difficile_ infection (CDI) is
higher among older adults with cancer, we conducted a retrospective cohort
study with a nested caseâcontrol analysis using population-based
Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End ResultsâMedicare linked data for 2011.
Among 93,566 Medicare beneficiaries, incident CDI and odds for acquiring CDI
were higher among patients with than without cancer. Specifically, risk was
significantly higher for those who had liquid tumors and higher for those who
had recently diagnosed solid tumors and distant metastasis. These findings
were independent of prior healthcare-associated exposure. This population-
based assessment can be used to identify targets for prevention of CDI.

EID | Kamboj M, Gennarelli RL, Brite J, Sepkowitz K, Lipitz-Snyderman A. Risk
for Clostridioides difficile Infection among Older Adults with Cancer. Emerg
Infect Dis. 2019;25(9):1683-1689. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2509.181142  
---|---  
AMA | Kamboj M, Gennarelli RL, Brite J, et al. Risk for Clostridioides
difficile Infection among Older Adults with Cancer. _Emerging Infectious
Diseases_. 2019;25(9):1683-1689. doi:10.3201/eid2509.181142.  
APA | Kamboj, M., Gennarelli, R. L., Brite, J., Sepkowitz, K., & Lipitz-
Snyderman, A. (2019). Risk for Clostridioides difficile Infection among Older
Adults with Cancer. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _25_ (9), 1683-1689.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2509.181142.  
  
* * *

Expires 8/20/2020

Medscape CME Activity

**Classification of Trauma-Associated Invasive Fungal Infections to Support
Wound Treatment Decisions ** [PDF - 748 KB - 9 pages]

A. Ganesan et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

To evaluate a classification system to support clinical decisions for
treatment of contaminated deep wounds at risk for an invasive fungal infection
(IFI), we studied 246 US service members (413 wounds) injured in Afghanistan
(2009â2014) who had laboratory evidence of fungal infection. A total of 143
wounds with persistent necrosis and laboratory evidence were classified as
IFI; 120 wounds not meeting IFI criteria were classified as high suspicion
(patients had localized infection signs/symptoms and had received antifungal
medication for >10 days), and 150 were classified as low suspicion (failed to
meet these criteria). IFI patients received more blood than other patients and
had more severe injuries than patients in the low-suspicion group. Fungi of
the order Mucorales were more frequently isolated from IFI (39%) and high-
suspicion (21%) wounds than from low-suspicion (9%) wounds. Wounds that did
not require immediate antifungal therapy lacked necrosis and localized
signs/symptoms of infection and contained fungi from orders other than
Mucorales.

EID | Ganesan A, Shaikh F, Bradley W, Blyth DM, Bennett D, Petfield JL, et al.
Classification of Trauma-Associated Invasive Fungal Infections to Support
Wound Treatment Decisions. Emerg Infect Dis. 2019;25(9):1639-1647.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2509.190168  
---|---  
AMA | Ganesan A, Shaikh F, Bradley W, et al. Classification of Trauma-
Associated Invasive Fungal Infections to Support Wound Treatment Decisions.
_Emerging Infectious Diseases_. 2019;25(9):1639-1647.
doi:10.3201/eid2509.190168.  
APA | Ganesan, A., Shaikh, F., Bradley, W., Blyth, D. M., Bennett, D.,
Petfield, J. L....Tribble, D. R. (2019). Classification of Trauma-Associated
Invasive Fungal Infections to Support Wound Treatment Decisions. _Emerging
Infectious Diseases_ , _25_ (9), 1639-1647.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2509.190168.  
  
* * *

Expires 7/15/2020

Medscape CME Activity

**Zika Virus Infection in Pregnant Women, Yucatan, Mexico ** [PDF - 1.23 MB -
8 pages]

Y. Romer et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

We report demographic, epidemiologic, and clinical findings for a prospective
cohort of pregnant women during the initial phase of Zika virus introduction
into Yucatan, Mexico. We monitored 115 pregnant women for signs of active or
recent Zika virus infection. The estimated cumulative incidence of Zika virus
infection was 0.31 and the ratio of symptomatic to asymptomatic cases was 1.7
(range 1.3â4.0 depending on age group). Exanthema was the most sensitive
clinical sign but also the least specific. Conjunctival hyperemia, joint
edema, and exanthema were the combination of signs that had the highest
specificity but low sensitivity. We did not find evidence of vertical
transmission or fetal anomalies, likely because of the low number of pregnant
women tested. We also did not find evidence of congenital disease. Our
findings emphasize the limited predictive value of clinical features in areas
where Zika virus cocirculates with other flaviviruses.

EID | Romer Y, Valadez-Gonzalez N, Contreras-Capetillo S, Manrique-Saide P,
Vazquez-Prokopec G, Pavia-Ruz N. Zika Virus Infection in Pregnant Women,
Yucatan, Mexico. Emerg Infect Dis. 2019;25(8):1452-1460.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2508.180915  
---|---  
AMA | Romer Y, Valadez-Gonzalez N, Contreras-Capetillo S, et al. Zika Virus
Infection in Pregnant Women, Yucatan, Mexico. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_.
2019;25(8):1452-1460. doi:10.3201/eid2508.180915.  
APA | Romer, Y., Valadez-Gonzalez, N., Contreras-Capetillo, S., Manrique-
Saide, P., Vazquez-Prokopec, G., & Pavia-Ruz, N. (2019). Zika Virus Infection
in Pregnant Women, Yucatan, Mexico. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _25_ (8),
1452-1460. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2508.180915.  
  
* * *

Expires 6/17/2020

Medscape CME Activity

**Prescribing Patterns for Treatment of _Mycobacterium avium_ Complex and _M.
xenopi_ Pulmonary Disease in Ontario, Canada, 2001â2013 ** [PDF - 969 KB -
10 pages]

S. K. Brode et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Surveys suggest that clinicians diverge from guidelines when treating
_Mycobacterium avium_ complex (MAC) pulmonary disease (PD). To determine
prescribing patterns, we conducted a cohort study of adults >66 years of age
in Ontario, Canada, with MAC or _Mycobacterium xenopi_ PD during 2001â2013.
Using linked laboratory and health administrative databases, we studied the
first treatment episode (>60 continuous days of >1 of a macrolide, ethambutol,
rifamycin, fluoroquinolone, linezolid, inhaled amikacin, or, for _M. xenopi_ ,
isoniazid). Treatment was prescribed for 24% MAC and 15% of _M. xenopi_ PD
patients. Most commonly prescribed was the recommended combination of
macrolide, ethambutol, and rifamycin, for 47% of MAC and 36% of _M. xenopi_ PD
patients. Among MAC PD patients, 20% received macrolide monotherapy and 33%
received regimens associated with emergent macrolide resistance. Although the
most commonly prescribed regimen was guidelines-recommended, many regimens
prescribed for MAC PD were associated with emergent macrolide resistance.

EID | Brode SK, Chung H, Campitelli MA, Kwong JC, Marchand-Austin A, Winthrop
KL, et al. Prescribing Patterns for Treatment of Mycobacterium avium Complex
and M. xenopi Pulmonary Disease in Ontario, Canada, 2001â2013. Emerg Infect
Dis. 2019;25(7):1271-1280. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2507.181817  
---|---  
AMA | Brode SK, Chung H, Campitelli MA, et al. Prescribing Patterns for
Treatment of Mycobacterium avium Complex and M. xenopi Pulmonary Disease in
Ontario, Canada, 2001â2013. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_.
2019;25(7):1271-1280. doi:10.3201/eid2507.181817.  
APA | Brode, S. K., Chung, H., Campitelli, M. A., Kwong, J. C., Marchand-
Austin, A., Winthrop, K. L....Marras, T. K. (2019). Prescribing Patterns for
Treatment of Mycobacterium avium Complex and M. xenopi Pulmonary Disease in
Ontario, Canada, 2001â2013. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _25_ (7),
1271-1280. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2507.181817.  
  
* * *

Expires 6/13/2020

Medscape CME Activity

**Hospital-Associated Multicenter Outbreak of Emerging Fungus _Candida auris_
, Colombia, 2016 ** [PDF - 866 KB - 8 pages]

P. A. Armstrong et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif)
View Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

_Candida auris_ is an emerging multidrug-resistant fungus that causes
hospital-associated outbreaks of invasive infections with high death rates.
During 2015â2016, health authorities in Colombia detected an outbreak of _C.
auris_. We conducted an investigation to characterize the epidemiology,
transmission mechanisms, and reservoirs of this organism. We investigated 4
hospitals with confirmed cases of _C. auris_ candidemia in 3 cities in
Colombia. We abstracted medical records and collected swabs from
contemporaneously hospitalized patients to assess for skin colonization. We
identified 40 cases; median patient age was 23 years (IQR 4 monthsâ56
years). Twelve (30%) patients were <1 year of age, and 24 (60%) were male. The
30-day mortality was 43%. Cases clustered in time and location; axilla and
groin were the most commonly colonized sites. Temporal and spatial clustering
of cases and skin colonization suggest person-to-person transmission of _C.
auris_. These cases highlight the importance of adherence to infection control
recommendations.

EID | Armstrong PA, Rivera SM, Escandon P, Caceres DH, Chow N, Stuckey MJ, et
al. Hospital-Associated Multicenter Outbreak of Emerging Fungus Candida auris,
Colombia, 2016. Emerg Infect Dis. 2019;25(7):1339-1346.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2507.180491  
---|---  
AMA | Armstrong PA, Rivera SM, Escandon P, et al. Hospital-Associated
Multicenter Outbreak of Emerging Fungus Candida auris, Colombia, 2016.
_Emerging Infectious Diseases_. 2019;25(7):1339-1346.
doi:10.3201/eid2507.180491.  
APA | Armstrong, P. A., Rivera, S. M., Escandon, P., Caceres, D. H., Chow, N.,
Stuckey, M. J....Pacheco, O. (2019). Hospital-Associated Multicenter Outbreak
of Emerging Fungus Candida auris, Colombia, 2016. _Emerging Infectious
Diseases_ , _25_ (7), 1339-1346. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2507.180491.  
  
* * *

Expires 5/19/2020

Medscape CME Activity

**Epidemiologic and Clinical Features of Lassa Fever Outbreak in Nigeria,
January 1âMay 6, 2018 ** [PDF - 1.90 MB - 9 pages]

E. A. Ilori et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Lassa fever (LF) is endemic to Nigeria, where the disease causes substantial
rates of illness and death. In this article, we report an analysis of the
epidemiologic and clinical aspects of the LF outbreak that occurred in Nigeria
during January 1âMay 6, 2018. A total of 1,893 cases were reported; 423 were
laboratory-confirmed cases, among which 106 deaths were recorded (case-
fatality rate 25.1%). Among all confirmed cases, 37 occurred in healthcare
workers. The secondary attack rate among 5,001 contacts was 0.56%. Most
(80.6%) confirmed cases were reported from 3 states (Edo, Ondo, and Ebonyi).
Fatal outcomes were significantly associated with being elderly; no
administration of ribavirin; and the presence of a cough, hemorrhaging, and
unconsciousness. The findings in this study should lead to further LF research
and provide guidance to those preparing to respond to future outbreaks.

EID | Ilori EA, Furuse Y, Ipadeola OB, Dan-Nwafor CC, Abubakar A, Womi-Eteng
OE, et al. Epidemiologic and Clinical Features of Lassa Fever Outbreak in
Nigeria, January 1âMay 6, 2018. Emerg Infect Dis. 2019;25(6):1066-1074.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2506.181035  
---|---  
AMA | Ilori EA, Furuse Y, Ipadeola OB, et al. Epidemiologic and Clinical
Features of Lassa Fever Outbreak in Nigeria, January 1âMay 6, 2018.
_Emerging Infectious Diseases_. 2019;25(6):1066-1074.
doi:10.3201/eid2506.181035.  
APA | Ilori, E. A., Furuse, Y., Ipadeola, O. B., Dan-Nwafor, C. C., Abubakar,
A., Womi-Eteng, O. E....Ihekweazu, C. (2019). Epidemiologic and Clinical
Features of Lassa Fever Outbreak in Nigeria, January 1âMay 6, 2018.
_Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _25_ (6), 1066-1074.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2506.181035.  
  
* * *

Expires 5/17/2020

Medscape CME Activity

**Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Musculoskeletal Infection Cases from a Tertiary
Referral Center, Colorado, USA ** [PDF - 578 KB - 7 pages]

N. Goldstein et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

Nontuberculous mycobacteria represent an uncommon but important cause of
infection of the musculoskeletal system. Such infections require aggressive
medical and surgical treatment, and cases are often complicated by delayed
diagnosis. We retrospectively reviewed all 14 nonspinal cases of
nontuberculous mycobacterial musculoskeletal infections treated over 6 years
by orthopedic surgeons at a university-affiliated tertiary referral center.
All patients required multiple antimicrobial agents along with aggressive
surgical treatment; 13 of 14 patients ultimately achieved cure. Four patients
required amputation to control the infection. Half these patients were
immunosuppressed by medications or other medical illness when they sought care
at the referral center. Six cases involved joint prostheses; all ultimately
required hardware removal and placement of an antimicrobial spacer for
eradication of infection. Our findings highlight the importance of vigilance
for nontuberculous mycobacterial musculoskeletal infection, particularly in
patients who are immunosuppressed or have a history of musculoskeletal
surgery.

EID | Goldstein N, St. Clair J, Kasperbauer SH, Daley CL, Lindeque B.
Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Musculoskeletal Infection Cases from a Tertiary
Referral Center, Colorado, USA. Emerg Infect Dis. 2019;25(6):1075-1083.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2506.181041  
---|---  
AMA | Goldstein N, St. Clair J, Kasperbauer SH, et al. Nontuberculous
Mycobacterial Musculoskeletal Infection Cases from a Tertiary Referral Center,
Colorado, USA. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_. 2019;25(6):1075-1083.
doi:10.3201/eid2506.181041.  
APA | Goldstein, N., St. Clair, J., Kasperbauer, S. H., Daley, C. L., &
Lindeque, B. (2019). Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Musculoskeletal Infection
Cases from a Tertiary Referral Center, Colorado, USA. _Emerging Infectious
Diseases_ , _25_ (6), 1075-1083. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2506.181041.  
  
* * *

Expires 4/17/2020

Medscape CME Activity

**Novel Sequence Type in _Bacillus cereus_ Strains Associated with Nosocomial
Infections and Bacteremia, Japan ** [PDF - 2.53 MB - 8 pages]

R. Akamatsu et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) View
Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif) Cite This
Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this Article

_Bacillus cereus_ is associated with foodborne illnesses characterized by
vomiting and diarrhea. Although some _B. cereus_ strains that cause severe
extraintestinal infections and nosocomial infections are recognized as serious
public health threats in healthcare settings, the genetic backgrounds of _B.
cereus_ strains causing such infections remain unknown. By conducting pulsed-
field gel electrophoresis and multilocus sequence typing, we found that a
novel sequence type (ST), newly registered as ST1420, was the dominant ST
isolated from the cases of nosocomial infections that occurred in 3 locations
in Japan in 2006, 2013, and 2016. Phylogenetic analysis showed that ST1420
strains belonged to the Cereus III lineage, which is much closer to the
Anthracis lineage than to other Cereus lineages. Our results suggest that
ST1420 is a prevalent ST in _B. cereus_ strains that have caused recent
nosocomial infections in Japan.

EID | Akamatsu R, Suzuki M, Okinaka K, Sasahara T, Yamane K, Suzuki S, et al.
Novel Sequence Type in Bacillus cereus Strains Associated with Nosocomial
Infections and Bacteremia, Japan. Emerg Infect Dis. 2019;25(5):883-890.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2505.171890  
---|---  
AMA | Akamatsu R, Suzuki M, Okinaka K, et al. Novel Sequence Type in Bacillus
cereus Strains Associated with Nosocomial Infections and Bacteremia, Japan.
_Emerging Infectious Diseases_. 2019;25(5):883-890.
doi:10.3201/eid2505.171890.  
APA | Akamatsu, R., Suzuki, M., Okinaka, K., Sasahara, T., Yamane, K., Suzuki,
S....Higashi, H. (2019). Novel Sequence Type in Bacillus cereus Strains
Associated with Nosocomial Infections and Bacteremia, Japan. _Emerging
Infectious Diseases_ , _25_ (5), 883-890.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2505.171890.  
  
* * *

Expires 4/12/2020

Medscape CME Activity

**Age-Dependent Increase in Incidence of _Staphylococcus aureus_ Bacteremia,
Denmark, 2008â2015 ** [PDF - 1.04 MB - 8 pages]

L. Thorlacius-Ussing et al. ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-
expand.gif) View Abstract ![Expand](/eid/content/images/icon/white-expand.gif)
Cite This Article ![Email](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) Email this
Article

_Staphylococcus aureus_ bacteremia (SAB) is a major cause of illness and death
worldwide. We analyzed temporal trends of SAB incidence and death in Denmark
during 2008â2015. SAB incidence increased 48%, from 20.76 to 30.37 per
100,000 person-years, during this period (p<0.001). The largest change in
incidence was observed for persons >80 years of age: a 90% increase in the SAB
rate (p<0.001). After adjusting for demographic changes, annual rates
increased 4.0% (95% CI 3.0â5.0) for persons <80 years of age, 8.4% (95% CI
7.0â11.0) for persons 80â89 years of age, and 13.0% (95% CI 9.0â17.5)
for persons >90 years of age. The 30-day case-fatality rate remained stable at
24%; crude population death rates increased by 53% during 2008â2015
(p<0.001). Specific causes and mechanisms for this rapid increase in SAB
incidence among the elderly population remain to be clarified.

EID | Thorlacius-Ussing L, Sandholdt H, Larsen A, Petersen A, Benfield T. Age-
Dependent Increase in Incidence of Staphylococcus aureus Bacteremia, Denmark,
2008â2015. Emerg Infect Dis. 2019;25(5):875-882.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2505.181733  
---|---  
AMA | Thorlacius-Ussing L, Sandholdt H, Larsen A, et al. Age-Dependent
Increase in Incidence of Staphylococcus aureus Bacteremia, Denmark,
2008â2015. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_. 2019;25(5):875-882.
doi:10.3201/eid2505.181733.  
APA | Thorlacius-Ussing, L., Sandholdt, H., Larsen, A., Petersen, A., &
Benfield, T. (2019). Age-Dependent Increase in Incidence of Staphylococcus
aureus Bacteremia, Denmark, 2008â2015. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _25_
(5), 875-882. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2505.181733.  
  
Article Quick Search

![Open Quick Search](/eid/images/search-quick.jpg)

Search for articles with a simple interface. Powered by PubMed.

Advanced Search

![Advanced Search](/eid/images/search-advanced.jpg)

Search for articles by multiple keywords or authors. Results are searchable
and sortable. Powered by PubMed.

Articles by Country

![Article Map](/eid/images/search-map.jpg)

Find articles by topic country with the article map. Results are searchable
and sortable.

Spotlight Topics

![Spotlight Topics](/eid/images/search-spotlight.jpg)

Find articles on specific topics such as Ebola, Zika, and Influenza.

Article Types

![Article Types](/eid/images/search-types.jpg)

Browse articles by type, such as research, letters, or dispatches.

PubMed Central

![PubMed Central](/eid/images/search-pubmed.jpg)

You can find all of EIDâs contents on PubMed Central.

###  What's New

![ICEID 2012 image](/eid/images/conference.gif) |  Conference summaries
welcome online only |  ![podcast icon](/eid/images/podcast-icon-btm.gif) |
LATEST PODCAST **Quiet Moment around the Campfire**  
Length: 5:31 |  ![stack of books](/eid/images/computer.gif) |  Send us online
reports  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  Listen now or download MP3 |  
  
Page created: March 23, 2020

Page updated: March 23, 2020

Page reviewed: March 23, 2020

home4EID Journal

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About the Journalexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * General Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Background and Goals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Editors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Editorial Board
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Staff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Contact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Articlesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * April 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Early Release
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Past Issues
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Medscape CME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Searchexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Advanced Article Search
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Articles by Country Search
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Spotlight Topics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Article Type Search
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * EID on PubMed Central
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Subscribe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Author Resource Centerexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Policies and Guidelinesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Editorial Policy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Copyright Policy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Informed Consent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Preprint Policy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Manuscriptexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Provide ORCiD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Complete Author Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Types of Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Manuscript Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Prepare Manuscript
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Format Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Format Figures & Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Format References
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Submit Manuscript
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Check Manuscript Status
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Writing Guidesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Abbreviations, Acronyms, and Initialisms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Capitalization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Geographic Designations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Mathematical Modeling Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Preferred Usage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Punctuation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Scientific Nomenclature
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Spelling Preferences
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Units of Measure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Editorial Style Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Search Style Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Peer Reviewers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Podcasts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Media Related Contentexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Social Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Press & Media Information

edit_01 Submit ManuscriptExternal Link

Article Quick Search

**Issue Select**

Early Release Issues Volume 26, Number 5âMay 2020Volume 26, Number 6âJune
2020Volume 26, Number 7âJuly 2020Volume 26, Number 8âAugust 2020 GO

GO

Past Issues Volume 26, Number 3âMarch 2020Volume 26, Number 2âFebruary
2020Volume 26, Number 1âJanuary 2020Volume 25, Number 12âDecember
2019Volume 25, Number 11âNovember 2019Volume 25, Number 10âOctober
2019Volume 25, Number 9âSeptember 2019Volume 25, Number 8âAugust
2019Volume 25, Number 7âJuly 2019Volume 25, Number 6âJune 2019Volume 25,
Number 5âMay 2019Volume 25, Number 4âApril 2019Volume 25, Number 3âMarch
2019Volume 25, Number 2âFebruary 2019Volume 25, Number 1âJanuary
2019Volume 24, Number 12âDecember 2018Volume 24, Number 11âNovember
2018Volume 24, Number 10âOctober 2018Volume 24, Number 9âSeptember
2018Volume 24, Number 8âAugust 2018Volume 24, Number 7âJuly 2018Volume 24,
Number 6âJune 2018Volume 24, Number 5âMay 2018Volume 24, Number 4âApril
2018Volume 24, Number 3âMarch 2018Volume 24, Number 2âFebruary 2018Volume
24, Number 1âJanuary 2018Volume 23âGlobal Health Security SupplementVolume
23, Number 12âDecember 2017Volume 23, Number 11âNovember 2017Volume 23,
Number 10âOctober 2017Volume 23, Number 9âSeptember 2017Volume 23, Number
8âAugust 2017Volume 23, Number 7âJuly 2017Volume 23, Number 6âJune
2017Volume 23, Number 5âMay 2017Volume 23, Number 4âApril 2017Volume 23,
Number 3âMarch 2017Volume 23, Number 2âFebruary 2017Volume 23, Number
1âJanuary 2017Volume 22, Number 12âDecember 2016Volume 22, Number
11âNovember 2016Volume 22, Number 10âOctober 2016Volume 22, Number
9âSeptember 2016Volume 22, Number 8âAugust 2016Volume 22, Number 7âJuly
2016Volume 22, Number 6âJune 2016Volume 22, Number 5âMay 2016Volume 22,
Number 4âApril 2016Volume 22, Number 3âMarch 2016Volume 22, Number
2âFebruary 2016Volume 22, Number 1âJanuary 2016Volume 21, Number
12âDecember 2015Volume 21, Number 11âNovember 2015Volume 21, Number
10âOctober 2015Volume 21, Number 9âSeptember 2015Volume 21, Number
8âAugust 2015Volume 21, Number 7âJuly 2015Volume 21, Number 6âJune
2015Volume 21, Number 5âMay 2015Volume 21, Number 4âApril 2015Volume 21,
Number 3âMarch 2015Volume 21, Number 2âFebruary 2015Volume 21, Number
1âJanuary 2015Volume 20, Number 12âDecember 2014Volume 20, Number
11âNovember 2014Volume 20, Number 10âOctober 2014Volume 20, Number
9âSeptember 2014Volume 20, Number 8âAugust 2014Volume 20, Number 7âJuly
2014Volume 20, Number 6âJune 2014Volume 20, Number 5âMay 2014Volume 20,
Number 4âApril 2014Volume 20, Number 3âMarch 2014Volume 20, Number
2âFebruary 2014Volume 20, Number 1âJanuary 2014Volume 19, Number
12âDecember 2013Volume 19, Number 11âNovember 2013Volume 19, Number
10âOctober 2013Volume 19, Number 9âSeptember 2013Volume 19, Number
8âAugust 2013Volume 19, Number 7âJuly 2013Volume 19, Number 6âJune
2013Volume 19, Number 5âMay 2013Volume 19, Number 4âApril 2013Volume 19,
Number 3âMarch 2013Volume 19, Number 2âFebruary 2013Volume 19, Number
1âJanuary 2013Volume 18, Number 12âDecember 2012Volume 18, Number
11âNovember 2012Volume 18, Number 10âOctober 2012Volume 18, Number
9âSeptember 2012Volume 18, Number 8âAugust 2012Volume 18, Number 7âJuly
2012Volume 18, Number 6âJune 2012Volume 18, Number 5âMay 2012Volume 18,
Number 4âApril 2012Volume 18, Number 3âMarch 2012Volume 18, Number
2âFebruary 2012Volume 18, Number 1âJanuary 2012Volume 17, Number
12âDecember 2011Volume 17, Number 11âNovember 2011Volume 17, Number
10âOctober 2011Volume 17, Number 9âSeptember 2011Volume 17, Number
8âAugust 2011Volume 17, Number 7âJuly 2011Volume 17, Number 6âJune
2011Volume 17, Number 5âMay 2011Volume 17, Number 4âApril 2011Volume 17,
Number 3âMarch 2011Volume 17, Number 2âFebruary 2011Volume 17, Number
1âJanuary 2011Volume 16, Number 12âDecember 2010Volume 16, Number
11âNovember 2010Volume 16, Number 10âOctober 2010Volume 16, Number
9âSeptember 2010Volume 16, Number 8âAugust 2010Volume 16, Number 7âJuly
2010Volume 16, Number 6âJune 2010Volume 16, Number 5âMay 2010Volume 16,
Number 4âApril 2010Volume 16, Number 3âMarch 2010Volume 16, Number
2âFebruary 2010Volume 16, Number 1âJanuary 2010Volume 15, Number
12âDecember 2009Volume 15, Number 11âNovember 2009Volume 15, Number
10âOctober 2009Volume 15, Number 9âSeptember 2009Volume 15, Number
8âAugust 2009Volume 15, Number 7âJuly 2009Volume 15, Number 6âJune
2009Volume 15, Number 5âMay 2009Volume 15, Number 4âApril 2009Volume 15,
Number 3âMarch 2009Volume 15, Number 2âFebruary 2009Volume 15, Number
1âJanuary 2009Volume 14, Number 12âDecember 2008Volume 14, Number
11âNovember 2008Volume 14, Number 10âOctober 2008Volume 14, Number
9âSeptember 2008Volume 14, Number 8âAugust 2008Volume 14, Number 7âJuly
2008Volume 14, Number 6âJune 2008Volume 14, Number 5âMay 2008Volume 14,
Number 4âApril 2008Volume 14, Number 3âMarch 2008Volume 14, Number
2âFebruary 2008Volume 14, Number 1âJanuary 2008Volume 13, Number
12âDecember 2007Volume 13, Number 11âNovember 2007Volume 13, Number
10âOctober 2007Volume 13, Number 9âSeptember 2007Volume 13, Number
8âAugust 2007Volume 13, Number 7âJuly 2007Volume 13, Number 6âJune
2007Volume 13, Number 5âMay 2007Volume 13, Number 4âApril 2007Volume 13,
Number 3âMarch 2007Volume 13, Number 2âFebruary 2007Volume 13, Number
1âJanuary 2007Volume 12, Number 12âDecember 2006Volume 12, Number
11âNovember 2006Volume 12, Number 10âOctober 2006Volume 12, Number
9âSeptember 2006Volume 12, Number 8âAugust 2006Volume 12, Number 7âJuly
2006Volume 12, Number 6âJune 2006Volume 12, Number 5âMay 2006Volume 12,
Number 4âApril 2006Volume 12, Number 3âMarch 2006Volume 12, Number
2âFebruary 2006Volume 12, Number 1âJanuary 2006Volume 11, Number
12âDecember 2005Volume 11, Number 11âNovember 2005Volume 11, Number
10âOctober 2005Volume 11, Number 9âSeptember 2005Volume 11, Number
8âAugust 2005Volume 11, Number 7âJuly 2005Volume 11, Number 6âJune
2005Volume 11, Number 5âMay 2005Volume 11, Number 4âApril 2005Volume 11,
Number 3âMarch 2005Volume 11, Number 2âFebruary 2005Volume 11, Number
1âJanuary 2005Volume 10, Number 12âDecember 2004Volume 10, Number
11âNovember 2004Volume 10, Number 10âOctober 2004Volume 10, Number
9âSeptember 2004Volume 10, Number 8âAugust 2004Volume 10, Number 7âJuly
2004Volume 10, Number 6âJune 2004Volume 10, Number 5âMay 2004Volume 10,
Number 4âApril 2004Volume 10, Number 3âMarch 2004Volume 10, Number
2âFebruary 2004Volume 10, Number 1âJanuary 2004Volume 9, Number
12âDecember 2003Volume 9, Number 11âNovember 2003Volume 9, Number
10âOctober 2003Volume 9, Number 9âSeptember 2003Volume 9, Number
8âAugust 2003Volume 9, Number 7âJuly 2003Volume 9, Number 6âJune
2003Volume 9, Number 5âMay 2003Volume 9, Number 4âApril 2003Volume 9,
Number 3âMarch 2003Volume 9, Number 2âFebruary 2003Volume 9, Number
1âJanuary 2003Volume 8, Number 12âDecember 2002Volume 8, Number
11âNovember 2002Volume 8, Number 10âOctober 2002Volume 8, Number
9âSeptember 2002Volume 8, Number 8âAugust 2002Volume 8, Number 7âJuly
2002Volume 8, Number 6âJune 2002Volume 8, Number 5âMay 2002Volume 8,
Number 4âApril 2002Volume 8, Number 3âMarch 2002Volume 8, Number
2âFebruary 2002Volume 8, Number 1âJanuary 2002Volume 7, Number
6âDecember 2001Volume 7, Number 5âOctober 2001Volume 7, Number 4âAugust
2001Volume 7, Number 7âJune 2001Volume 7, Number 3âJune 2001Volume 7,
Number 2âApril 2001Volume 7, Number 1âFebruary 2001Volume 6, Number
6âDecember 2000Volume 6, Number 5âOctober 2000Volume 6, Number 4âAugust
2000Volume 6, Number 3âJune 2000Volume 6, Number 2âApril 2000Volume 6,
Number 1âFebruary 2000Volume 5, Number 6âDecember 1999Volume 5, Number
5âOctober 1999Volume 5, Number 4âAugust 1999Volume 5, Number 3âJune
1999Volume 5, Number 2âApril 1999Volume 5, Number 1âFebruary 1999Volume 4,
Number 4âDecember 1998Volume 4, Number 3âSeptember 1998Volume 4, Number
2âJune 1998Volume 4, Number 1âMarch 1998Volume 3, Number 4âDecember
1997Volume 3, Number 3âSeptember 1997Volume 3, Number 2âJune 1997Volume 3,
Number 1âMarch 1997Volume 2, Number 4âOctober 1996Volume 2, Number
3âJuly 1996Volume 2, Number 2âApril 1996Volume 2, Number 1âJanuary
1996Volume 1, Number 4âOctober 1995Volume 1, Number 3âJuly 1995Volume 1,
Number 2âApril 1995Volume 1, Number 1âJanuary 1995 GO

GO

![](/eid/images/Spotlight-Coronavirus_homepage.jpg)

![](/eid/images/World-TB-Day-2020.jpg.jpg)

![](/eid/images/Spotlight Topics.jpg)

##  **Notice to Readers**  
  
---  
  
_**Emerging Infectious Diseases**_ now publishes online only. PDFs of issues,
articles, and appendixes remain available to download or print.

Sign up at **EID Subscriptions** to receive email notifications for the table
of contents, expedited articles, podcasts, CME credits, and specific article
types and disease topics.  
  
![LATEST PODCAST](/eid/images/latest-podcast-icon.jpg)

**Making a Simple Respiratory Mask** -- (Length: 20:53)

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Additional Resources

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Preventing Chronic Disease Journal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Vital Signs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Public Health Image Library (PHIL)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

Open modal

#### Article Quick Search

Title

Search Body Search Title Search Keywords Search Abstract Search Authors

Search Help

Enter search text into the textbox above and click "Search" to seach all
articles in the journal. To search multiple terms, separate them by a
semicolon. For example "Salmonella enterica; United States", will search for
"Salmonella enterica" and "United States" as two different keywords.  
  
Different parts of an article can be searched by using the dropdown to the
right of the textbox. Authors can be listed either as "First Last" or "Last,
First".  
  
Search terms must be at least 3 characters long, or they will be ignored.  
  
This search feature is powered by PubMed Central and uses an algorithm to rank
the most relevant results. Search results are limited to the first 200
results.

Close

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

