https://www.cdc.gov/ncezid/what-we-do/our-work-2016.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/ncezid/what-we-do/our-work-2016.html    
                Description: Updates on our work per month for the year of 2016    
                Keywords: ncezid, cdc, zoonotic diseases, emerging diseases,    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate

# Our Work: 2016

Minus

Related Pages

### Our Work - 2016

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * November
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * October
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * September
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * August
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * July
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * May
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * April
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * March
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * February
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * January

### Zika update

![Image of a zika pdf: Visiting Puerto Rico?](/ncezid/images/recent-
work/visiting-puerto-rico.jpg)

Even though colder temperatures have arrived in many areas, Zika virus
transmission continues to be a concern in parts of the globe, including the
United States.

On November 28, Texas health officials reported that Zika virus infection in a
resident of Brownsville, Texas may have been spread by local mosquitoes. This
may be the first case of local mosquito-borne Zika virus transmission in the
state. CDC is closely coordinating with Texas and local officials to increase
surveillance and vector control efforts in the Brownsville area.

CDC continues efforts with Florida health officials to fight Zika and
investigate cases in Miami-Dade County, Florida. On November 22, CDC updated
guidance for Miami Beach, Florida. The North and South Miami Beach sections
are now being considered separately because no new cases of local Zika virus
transmission were identified in North Miami Beach after three mosquito
incubation periods passed (45 days), suggesting that the risk of Zika virus
infection in North Miami Beach is no longer greater than in the rest of Miami-
Dade County. North Miami Beach is now designated as a Zika cautionary area
(yellow area) and South Miami Beach continues to be a Zika active transmission
area (red area).

CDC also continues to support the Zika response in other areas of the globe.
As of November 29, 98 CDC staff members were deployed for the Zika response,
and 982 had completed deployments. A total of 45 CDC employees continued to
support the response in Puerto Rico, where 31,944 locally acquired cases had
been reported as of November 23. The _MMWR_ "Incidence of Zika Virus Disease
by Age and Sex - Puerto Rico, November 1, 2015-October 20, 2016" was published
on November 11. This report showed that among more than 28,200 non-pregnant
people with laboratory-confirmed Zika in Puerto Rico, Zika infection was
highest among women ages 20 to 49.

Additionally, CDC has published an updated version of the Guidance for US
Laboratories Testing for Zika Virus Infection, which provides updated
recommendations for testing of specimens by US laboratories for possible Zika
virus infection. CDC also has published Zika virus infection control guidance
for healthcare workers. The guidance describes the standard precautions that
should be used to protect healthcare personnel from all infectious disease
transmission, including Zika virus, and other advice for healthcare workers.

On November 18, the WHOExternal changed the classification of Zika and its
related consequences from a Public Health Emergency of International Concern
as defined under the International Health Regulations to an enduring public
health challenge requiring intense action. Noting that many aspects of Zika
still remain to be understood, the WHO Executive Committee recommended that
what is needed now is a sustained program of work with dedicated resources to
address the long-term nature of the disease and its associated consequences.

### FoodNet Fast online tool

![Image of FoodNet Fast logo](/ncezid/images/recent-work/food-net-fast.jpg)

CDC just launched FoodNet Fast, an interactive tool that makes it easy to
create custom searches from the Foodborne Diseases Active Surveillance Network
(FoodNet), which covers about 15% of the United States population.

Users can see how rates of illnesses have changed over the past 20 years for
the nine pathogens transmitted commonly by food that FoodNet tracks:
_Campylobacter_ , _Cryptosporidium_ , _Cyclospora_ , _Listeria_ , _Salmonella_
, Shiga toxin-producing _Escherichia coli_ (STEC) O157 and non-O157,
_Shigella_ , _Vibrio_ , and _Yersinia_.

People and organizations can use FoodNet Fast data to quickly and easily learn
how many cases occurred in certain areas or over certain time periods, which
groups were affected, and how the number of cases changed over time. For more
information about FoodNet, visit https://www.cdc.gov/foodnet/index.html.

### _Candida auris_ now in US

![Petri dish with cultured candida auris ](/ncezid/images/recent-work/candida-
auris-petri-dish.jpg)

CDC announced 13 cases of _Candida auris_ , an emerging drug-resistant fungus,
in the United States through a press release on November 4, 2016. _C. auris_
is often resistant to multiple antifungal drugs and seems to spread in
healthcare settings. Such high levels of resistance and healthcare
transmission are not usual for other _Candida_ species. An _MMWR_ Early
Release on November 11 detailed the first 7 cases from May 2013 through August
2016. The additional 6 cases are still under investigation. CDC's _C. auris_
webpage was updated to include a US map of cases and interim recommendations
on laboratory diagnosis and infection control.

### NCEZID website enhancements

![cropped image of pdf: Logros 2015](/ncezid/images/recent-work/logros.jpg)

Now you can find all the new NCEZID website content that's refreshed each
month on one page! Each month, on the What's New page, you can find links to
recent work, media releases, new videos, infographics, features, blog posts,
and more. Aggregating all new content about NCEZID activities on a "one-stop-
shop" page provides a quick snapshot of recent center highlights.

¿Habla español? Our new NCEZID en Español website provides access to Spanish
speakers. The site includes evergreen content describing what we do, an
organizational chart, and translations of the NCEZID strategic plan and 2015
accomplishments. Links to new NCEZID-related Spanish content will be
periodically updated.

### Risk of infection during open heart surgery

![surgeon wearing surgical magnifying glasses](/ncezid/images/recent-
work/open-heart-surgery.jpg)

CDC recently warned healthcare providers and patients about the potential risk
of infection from certain devices used during open heart surgery. This advice
follows an investigation report including new whole genome sequencing results
published in _MMWR_ indicating that some LivaNova PLC (formerly Sorin Group
Deutschland GmbH) Stockert 3T heater-cooler devices, used during many of these
surgeries, might have been contaminated during manufacturing, which could put
patients at risk for life-threatening infections. CDC distributed a HAN and
press release to inform clinicians and patients of the risk and a notification
toolkit to assist healthcare facilities with notifying patients.

### Zika update

![image with an illustration of a mosquito with the words - Zika Virus Update:
Zika cases in Florida](/ncezid/images/recent-work/zika-virus-update.jpg)

As mosquitoes continue to spread Zika virus in parts of Miami-Dade County,
Florida, CDC is continuing efforts with Florida health officials to fight the
disease and investigate new cases of locally transmitted Zika virus infection.

On October 13, Florida announced a new area of mosquito-borne spread of Zika
in a 1-square-mile area in Miami-Dade County, in addition to the existing
4.5-square-mile area in Miami Beach. CDC has strengthened travel
recommendations for pregnant women to Miami-Dade County and is reinforcing
recommendations for use of protective measures to prevent exposure to Zika. As
described in a Health Alert Network update released October 19, CDC advises
pregnant women to consider postponing travel to all areas of Miami-Dade County
and to specifically avoid travel to the previously identified 4.5-squre-mile
area of Miami Beach and 1-square-mile area in Little River located in Miami-
Dade County. Women and men who are planning to conceive in the near future
should consider avoiding nonessential travel to the identified areas.

Continuing this work is important, as Zika transmission continues in many
territories and countries. As of October 26, 139 locally transmitted cases of
Zika have been reported in the continental United States, all in Florida. Zika
continues to spread in Puerto Rico, where 28,111 locally acquired cases of
Zika had been reported as of October 26. CDC continues to intensify activities
to help Puerto Rico prevent Zika virus infection, especially among pregnant
women.

**_Supplemental funding announced_**

On October 21, CDC announced the availability of about $70 million in
supplemental funding to states, cities, and territories to support continued
efforts to protect Americans from Zika virus. The funding, distributed through
the Epidemiology and Laboratory Capacity for Infectious Diseases (ELC)
Cooperative Agreement, will support vital activities to protect the health of
Americans, especially pregnant women, including epidemiologic surveillance and
investigation, improving mosquito control and monitoring, and strengthening
laboratory capacity. Funding also will support participation in the US Zika
Pregnancy Registry to monitor pregnant women with Zika and their infants.

### CDC awards $14 million to study microbiome

![petri dish with red dots in smear pattern ](/ncezid/images/recent-
work/study-microbiome.jpg)

On October 6, CDC awarded more than $14 million through a broad agency
announcement to fund 34 projects seeking new approaches to combat antibiotic
resistance. The awards support activities related to the CDC Antibiotic
Resistance Solutions Initiative and the National Action Plan for Combating
Antibiotic-Resistant BacteriaCdc-pdfExternal.

The projects will include research on how the microbiome can be used to
predict and prevent infections caused by drug-resistant organisms. The
microbiome is a community of naturally occurring microbes in and on our
bodies. It is often the body's first line of defense against infections.
Antibiotics can disrupt the microbiome by changing the balance of good and bad
bacteria, putting people at risk for potentially untreatable illnesses. The
research projects will study how antibiotics disrupt a healthy microbiome, how
a disrupted microbiome puts people at risk, and how antibiotic stewardship
protects the microbiome.

### Responding to Rift Valley fever outbreak

![herder driving animals down a dusty road](/ncezid/images/recent-work/rift-
valley-fever-outbreak.jpg)

CDC's Viral Special Pathogens Branch (VSPB) is providing support for the
response in Niger in West Africa to an outbreak of Rift Valley fever, a virus
commonly found in animals such as cattle and sheep, but can also infect and
cause illness in people. VSPB staff and others at CDC are sharing scientific
and communications expertise with the US Embassy in Niger, WHO, and the Food
and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations.

As of October 19, 132 cases of Rift Valley fever in people, with 31 deaths,
had been reported to WHO. There have also been reports of illness and
spontaneous abortions among animals. There is concern the outbreak could
spread to neighboring countries due to the seasonal movement of nomadic
herdsmen and as herders and their animals return home from a recent regional
festival that brought together herders and 2 million livestock.

### Outbreak of shigellosis in Michigan

![3D illustration of drug-resistant Shigella shown in a colony - long cylinder
rod-shaped cells covered by numerous thin, hair-like
projections,](/ncezid/images/recent-work/shigellosis-in-michigan.jpg)

CDC staff were deployed to Michigan to investigate shigellosis outbreaks in
Genesee and Saginaw countiesExternal. Shigellosis is a diarrheal disease
caused by a group of bacteria called _Shigella_. _Shigella_ infection causes
about 500,000 cases of diarrhea in the United States annually. The two
counties reported 177 cases of shigellosis since March. Most who are infected
with _Shigella_ develop diarrhea, fever, and stomach cramps starting a day or
2 after they are exposed to the bacteria. The team is assisting state and
local health officials to determine the magnitude of the outbreak, identify
the chains of transmission and risk factors, map existing data related to
water quality from municipal systems, and communicate to the community about
the outbreak and investigation.

### The UN General Assembly addresses antibiotic resistance

![An image showing one hand placing a pill into someone's
palm](/ncezid/images/recent-work/un-antibiotic-resistance.jpg)

At the United Nations General AssemblyExternal in September, all 193 member
states agreed to a declaration to combat antimicrobial resistance. This was
only the fourth time global leaders had convened to specifically discuss a
health topic.

CDC Director Dr. Tom Frieden met with world leaders to reinforce the
importance of continued global action to fight antimicrobial resistance, the
need to slow its potentially devastating impact on people, plus its threat to
sustainable development goals, modern medicine, and food security. The
declaration includes a focus on developing surveillance for and regulation of
antibiotic use in humans and animals, finding innovative ways to develop new
antibiotics, and increasing awareness among healthcare professionals and the
public on preventing resistant infections.

### Zika update

![Small image of a larger infographic of a zika
doorhanger](/ncezid/images/recent-work/zika-doorhanger.jpg)

Fall is here, but the Zika response is not slowing. As of September 27, there
have been a total of 757 completed deployments for the Zika response, and 109
are currently deployed both domestically and internationally. This work is
crucial, as Zika transmission continues in many territories and countries,
including a small section of Miami-Dade County in Florida.

Mosquito-borne spread of Zika continues in a section of Miami-Dade County,
Florida. On September 17, the section of Miami Beach where active Zika
transmission has been identified was expanded to a 4.5-square-mile area. No
new cases of local transmission have been reported in the Wynwood area since
early August, and low numbers of mosquitoes have been found in traps there for
the past several weeks. By September 19, three mosquito incubation periods had
passed without any new locally transmitted cases of Zika in the Wynwood area.
On September 23, CDC published an MMWR detailing the investigation into local
mosquito-borne transmission of Zika in Miami-Dade and Broward counties,
including the measures that helped control Zika virus transmission in the
Wynwood area.

As of September 28, 59 mosquito-borne cases of Zika have been reported in the
United States. Zika continues to spread rapidly in other parts of the
Americas, including Puerto Rico, where 21,535 locally acquired cases of Zika
had been reported as of September 28. CDC continues to intensify activities to
help Puerto Rico prevent Zika virus infection, especially among pregnant
women.  On September 30, CDC updated its interim guidance for preconception
counseling and prevention of sexual transmission of Zika for people with
possible Zika virus exposure. CDC also issued travel guidance for Zika virus
in Southeast Asia.

### World Rabies Day

![An image of medical professional leaning down to administer a rabies shot to
a pub in the arms of a small boy. Other boys, also holding puppies stand
nearby.](/ncezid/images/recent-work/world-rabies-day.jpg)

On September 28, as CDC observed the 10th World Rabies Day, we were reminded
that this deadly but preventable disease - one of the oldest diseases known to
man - still keeps taking its toll, especially among the most vulnerable
populations of the world. This global health observance was established in
2007 to raise awareness about the burden of rabies and to bring together
partners to enhance prevention and control efforts worldwide. Around the
globe, people are dying from this horrible disease due to lack of resources,
animal control and vaccination programs, and education. CDC and other domestic
and international health organizations are working diligently to help control
and prevent rabies in the United States and the most affected countries. World
Rabies Day is an opportunity to reflect on our efforts to control this deadly
disease and remind ourselves that the fight is not yet over. Read about our
work around the world and the burden of rabies here in the United States.

### Partner Engagement for Patient Safety

![Image of a logo saying: Making Dialysis Safer
Coalition](/ncezid/images/recent-work/dialysis-safer.jpg)

CDC has been busy this month with numerous engagement opportunities with
patient safety partners.

On September 29, CDC co-hosted a stakeholder meeting to kick off the Making
Dialysis Safer for Patients Coalition. More than 60 attendees representing
various dialysis-related organizations and hemodialysis providers have joined
forces with CDC to implement CDC infection control recommendations and prevent
bloodstream infections among patients undergoing hemodialysis.

In support of September's Sepsis Awareness Month, CDC hosted a Twitter Chat
with ABC News' Dr. Richard Besser. The chat resulted in more than 54 million
impressions. Other Sepsis awareness month activities included two webinars for
clinicians and a leader in patient safety at CDC speaking at the Rory Staunton
Foundation's National Forum on Sepsis on September 12.

In September, the One & Only Campaign was on a fall conference tour to connect
with healthcare providers and promote safe injection practices. The Campaign
connected with more than 500 healthcare providers, distributed numerous
resources and garnered invaluable feedback about injection safety in the
field.  The Campaign exhibited at the Pain Week's 10th Annual MeetingExternal,
Nurse Anesthesia Annual CongressExternal, and the International Health
Facility Diversion Association 2016 Annual ConferenceExternal.

### Zika update

![Thumbnail  of zika factsheet showing long clothing and bug
spray](/ncezid/images/recent-work/zika-fact-sheet.jpg)

Throughout August, Zika has spread across many countries and territories,
including the United States. The United States has 2,487 travel-associated
cases as of August 24, 2016, and another area of active Zika transmission has
been identified in a section of Miami Beach, in addition to the area of active
Zika transmission near Wynwood in Miami-Dade County, Florida. CDC has issued
guidance for people who live in or traveled to the identified area of Miami
Beach any time after July 14. CDC has an Emergency Response Team in Florida to
help, and Florida officials have responded quickly with mosquito control
measures and a community-wide search for additional Zika cases. Zika continues
to spread rapidly in other parts of the Americas, including Puerto Rico, where
8,746 locally acquired cases of Zika had been reported as of August 24. CDC
continues to intensify activities to help Puerto Rico prevent Zika virus
infection, especially among pregnant women.

As more is learned about Zika, CDC continues to update guidance and publish
findings. The draft interim Zika response planCdc-pdf for the continental US
and Hawaii has been revised to reflect new guidance and information. On August
2, CDC published an MMWR on "Contraceptive Use Among Nonpregnant and
Postpartum Women at Risk for Unintended Pregnancy, and Female High School
Students, in the Context of Zika Preparedness." On August 19, CDC published an
MMWR titled "Update: Interim Guidance for the Evaluation and Management of
Infants with Possible Congenital Zika Virus Infection." CDC is continuing its
"Zika Topic of the Week" campaign, which highlights a simple prevention
message each week.

### Two foodborne Hepatitis A outbreaks

![Image of a bowl of strawberries and a smoothie in a
glass](/ncezid/images/recent-work/strawberry-smoothie.jpg)

CDC has been assisting with two foodborne Hepatitis A outbreaks in Hawaii and
Virginia.

The Hawaii Department of Health (HDOH)External, CDC, and FDAExternal are
investigating an outbreak of more than 200 cases of Hepatitis A on the islands
of Oahu and Kauai. HDOH identified raw scallops served at Genki Sushi
restaurants as a likely source of the ongoing outbreak. On August 18, Sea Port
Products Corp. recalled three lots of frozen bay scallops after FDA testing
identified Hepatitis A virus in samples of raw scallops collected from this
company. The scallops were imported from the Philippines. A CDC Epi-Aid team
was deployed on August 7 to Hawaii to assist with the investigation.

The Virginia Department of HealthExternal (VDH), CDC, and FDA are
investigating another outbreak of Hepatitis A in Virginia. VDH has identified
a link to smoothies prepared at Tropical Smoothie Cafe restaurants in
Virginia, with a particular interest in imported frozen strawberries from
Egypt used in the smoothies. Once notified of the outbreak, Tropical Smoothie
Cafe withdrew the suspected strawberries from their restaurants in Virginia.
CDC is working to identify any cases outside of Virginia linked to the
outbreak, and FDA is conducting an investigation into the source of the
strawberries and where else they may have been served.

### CDC launches Antibiotic Resistance Lab Network including 7 new regional
labs

![logo for ARLAB Network](/ncezid/images/recent-work/arlab-network.jpg)

As part of the $67 million provided to health departments in July to help
tackle antibiotic resistance (AR) and patient safety threats nationwide, CDC
announced the launch of the AR Laboratory Network--an effort to better detect
and combat resistance threats through enhanced local lab capacity and stronger
national coordination. The AR Lab Network consists of four CDC division labs,
seven new regional labs (MD, MN, NY, TN, TX, WA, WI), and existing state and
local health department labs in all 50 states and five major cities. Working
together, these labs will conduct nationwide testing to fill data gaps and
inform prevention and response for several urgent and serious pathogen threats
including CRE, gonorrhea, _Salmonella_ , _Streptococcus pneumoniae_ , and
_Clostridium difficile_. This ambitious approach transforms much of the
current laboratory landscape and will increase local testing of hard-to-treat
pathogens in order to detect resistance changes; improve detection, alerts,
and response to new resistance mechanisms (like _mcr-1_ ); and establish the
infrastructure needed to quickly ramp up special surveillance efforts when new
threats emerge.

To date, the AR Lab Network team has hosted several technical calls with the
new regional labs and will continue to scale up implementation throughout the
fall. More about the funding announcement and the other efforts AR Solutions
Initiative resources support can be found in this _Washington Post_ External
Article.

### Think Sepsis

![Cropped image from the sepsis fact sheet ](/ncezid/images/recent-
work/sepsis-fact-sheet.jpg)

CDC's August Vital Signs focused on sepsis, emphasizing the importance of
prevention and early recognition. Sepsis is a complication caused by the
body's overwhelming and life-threatening response to infection. It can lead to
tissue damage, organ failure, and death. Sepsis is a medical emergency. Time
matters.

September is Sepsis Awareness Month. Staff who worked on this issue of Vital
Signs are using social media (#ThinkSepsis) to encourage people to share how
sepsis has affected their family, friends, and loved ones. There will also be
a CDC Twitter Chat with ABC News' Dr. Richard Besser on September 13, at 1:00
pm EDT (#ABCDrBChat).

### Zika update

![scientist looks into a white container with dozens of mosquitoes
inside](/ncezid/images/recent-work/bucket-mosquitoes.jpg)

In late July, CDC was informed by the State of Florida of the first known
occurrence of local mosquito-borne Zika virus transmission in the United
States. The Florida Department of Health identified an area in one
neighborhood of Miami where Zika is being spread by mosquitoes. As a result,
on August 1, CDC and Florida issued travel, testing and other recommendations
for people who traveled to or lived in the Florida-designated areas on or
after June 15, 2016, based on the earliest time symptoms can start and the
maximum 2-week incubation period for Zika virus. At Florida's request, CDC
sent a CDC Emergency Response Team (CERT) with experts in Zika virus,
pregnancy and birth defects, vector control, laboratory science, and risk
communications to assist in the response. The draft interim Zika Response
PlanCdc-pdf for the continental US and Hawaii has been posted on the CDC
website, and it will be updated as the situation evolves and we learn more.

Earlier in July, a CERT deployed to Utah to assist in the investigation of a
case of Zika in a Utah resident who is a family member of the elderly Utah
resident who died in late June and had been infected with the virus after
traveling to an area with Zika. On July 18, CDC hosted a media briefing and
posted a media statement on the Utah investigation.

Zika continues to spread rapidly in other parts of the Americas, including in
Puerto Rico, where there were 5,460 locally acquired cases of Zika reported by
August 3. CDC continues to intensify activities to help Puerto Rico prevent
Zika virus infection, especially among pregnant women.

**_New studies, new insights_**

While we learn more about Zika, we continue to increase laboratory capacity
for testing and update guidance as we get new information. We are also
expanding our efforts to communicate Zika messages and report the information
we have. In addition to publishing the number of Zika cases and the number of
pregnant women with lab evidence of Zika, CDC has also begun reporting
pregnancy outcomes for those with lab evidence of possible Zika virus
infection. The information, which comes from the US Zika Pregnancy Registry
and the Zika Active Pregnancy Surveillance System in Puerto Rico, includes
pregnancy losses and live-born infants with birth defects in both the
continental US and US territories.

CDC continues to share findings about Zika with the scientific community. On
July 15, CDC published an early release of the MMWR _Suspected Female-to-Male
Sexual Transmission of Zika Virus --New York City, 2016_. The publication
identified the first case of female-to-male sexual transmission of Zika virus.
On July 25, CDC updated its interim guidance for health care providers in the
United States caring for pregnant women with possible Zika virus exposure, and
its interim guidance for the prevention of sexual transmission of Zika virus.

An article by CDC's Infectious Disease Pathology Branch and published recently
in _The Lancet_ External, reported on the severity of Zika infection,
especially during a woman's first trimester of pregnancy, and a range of birth
defects including microcephaly, and head, facial, spine and joint
malformations. The Pathology Branch staff studied five cases from Brazil
including two newborns with birth defects who died shortly after birth, a
third baby who died at 2 months, as well as two spontaneous abortions linked
to Zika.

### CDC gives $240M to states

![an illustrated image for Epidemiology and Laboratory Capacity for Infectious
Diseases](/ncezid/images/recent-work/elc-logo.jpg)

In late July, CDC announced an award of $240 million to help states detect,
prevent, and respond to the growing threats posed by emerging and re-emerging
infectious diseases, such as Zika virus and antibiotic resistance. The funding
is being distributed through CDC's Epidemiology and Laboratory Capacity for
Infectious Diseases (ELC) Cooperative Agreement, which oversees an array of
cross-cutting epidemiology, laboratory, and health information systems
activities that help domestic public health departments respond to complex
infectious disease threats.

Since ELC's inception, this funding mechanism has grown from assisting eight
grantees with $2 million dollars to providing $90-240 million annually (2011 -
2016) to all 50 states, 8 U.S. territories, and 6 cities with the largest
local health departments. In fact, the award distributed in August is the
largest amount dispersed since the ELC Cooperative Agreement started.

### Don't eat the cookie dough!

![image of flour in a wooden bowl](/ncezid/images/recent-work/flour-dough.jpg)

At least 46 people in 21 states have been infected with strains of
_Escherichia coli_ ( _E. coli_ ) O121 or _E. coli_ O26 and the investigation
has linked their illnesses to exposure to flour produced by General Mills in
Kansas City, Missouri. Ill people reported eating raw dough or raw batter
before getting sick. Several children reported playing with raw dough at
restaurants. As a result of the investigation, many different flours and
products containing flour have been recalled by General Mills and their
customers. CDC's investigation is ongoing. Eating raw dough or batter is a
known risky practice and has been linked to illnesses and outbreaks in the
past. This investigation is the first multistate outbreak of _E. coli_
infections definitively linked to flour: epidemiologic, microbiologic, and
traceback evidence all points to General Mills' flour as the source of the
outbreak.

### Yuck: Harmful algal blooms

![image of a red jet ski sending up waves of green
water](/ncezid/images/recent-work/algal-jet-ski.jpg)

Harmful algal blooms are the rapid growth of algae that can cause harm to
animals, people, or the local ecology. Algal blooms can look like foam, scum,
or mats on the surface of water and can be different colors. They can produce
toxins that have caused a variety of illnesses in people and animals. Harmful
algal blooms can occur in warm fresh, marine, or brackish waters with abundant
nutrients and are becoming more frequent with climate change.

CDC recently launched One Health Harmful Algal Bloom System (OHHABS), a
voluntary reporting system available to state and territorial public health
departments and their designated environmental health or animal health
partners. OHHABS collects data on individual human and animal cases of
illnesses from harmful algal bloom-associated exposures, as well as
environmental data about the blooms. This information will support the
understanding and prevention of harmful algal blooms and associated illnesses.
The team concurrently launched a new website for harmful algal blooms, issued
a media advisory announcing the launch of OHHABS and the new website, and
shared information on social media.

### Zika Update

![Image of an illustrated mosquito with a teal bar above with the words -
CDC's Response to Zika. Protect your family and
community](/ncezid/images/recent-work/tn-zika-protection-video.jpg)

The month of May saw an uptick in Zika activities - notably in CDC's efforts
to prepare for the Olympics in Brazil, and in preparing for the possibility of
a first locally acquired case of Zika in the continental United States. CDC,
along with state and local health departments across the country, is ramping
up preparedness activities as the weather gets warmer. Meanwhile, the outbreak
continues to spread across the Americas, with several new travel notices
posted during the past month.

We learn more about Zika every day, and one of our primary activities is
increasing laboratory capacity for testing and updating our guidance as we get
new information. For example, recent data indicate that Zika virus RNA is
unlikely to be detected in serum after the first week of illness, but that it
can be detected in urine for at least 2 weeks after symptoms first appear.
Based on this new information, we have released new interim guidance and a
Health Alert Network (HAN) health update about testing urine in patients with
suspected Zika virus disease, and we have also revised guidelines for
submitting body fluids for testing.

On May 20, we also announced some adjustments in how we report Zika virus
infection in pregnant women to cover a broader population of pregnant women at
risk for Zika. We are now using numbers from the US Zika Pregnancy Registry
and the Zika Active Surveillance System in Puerto Rico and will report
pregnant women with **_any_** lab evidence of possible Zika virus infection,
**_with or without_** symptoms. These numbers can be found on the Zika
website.

**Zika specimen repository**

![Image of the Zika Repository Team](/ncezid/images/recent-work/zika-
repository-team.jpg)

Early during the Zika outbreak, an interagency working group was established
to assist in the development of a Zika specimen repository. CDC's Division of
Scientific Resources was selected as the central location for management and
storage of this critical collection.The repository team is managing a
collection of over 250 clinical samples from the US, Puerto Rico, and Panama
with shipments expected from other countries in the future.

This repository is intended to support the generation of validation panels for
the state and local public health laboratories as they begin conducting tests
to detect the virus. To date, more than 100 Zika specimen shipments have gone
out to Laboratory Response Network US labs as well as to US Department of
Defense laboratories worldwide. Additionally, the repository supported the
creation of five panels that were distributed to five commercial entities with
promising assays in development. This project was established in partnership
with the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority and is
critical to ensuring that high-quality commercial assays are available in the
future. The hard-working repository staff and shipping team have established
an operation that can be a successful model for future global outbreaks.

### Healthy and Safe Swimming Week makes a splash

![An image of a long float in a pool with children sitting in a line. In the
water next to the children stands two instructors.](/ncezid/images/recent-
work/swimming-kids-learning.jpg)

May 23 marked the start of the 12th annual Healthy and Safe Swimming Week. To
help pique public interest in advance of the Week, CDC's Waterborne Disease
Prevention Branch (WDPB) released an MMWR surveillance summary on pool and hot
tub/spa inspection data, which found that every year, serious health and
safety violations force thousands of public pools, hot tubs, and water
playgrounds to close. The report attracted media attention from CNNExternal,
ABC NewsExternal, CBS NewsExternal, and ReutersExternal. WDPB kicked off the
week with a Twitter Chat cohosted with @NBCNewsHealth and launched their new
Healthy Swimming website.

### Inappropriate use of antibiotics in doctor's office and emergency rooms

![An image of a small infographic that shows a headline across the top  -
Improve Antibiotic Use to Combat Antibiotic Resistance. A circle graph below
shows 70% Necessary prescriptions and at least 30% Unnecessary prescriptions.
To the right, the words - CDC is working to reduce unnecessary antibiotic use.
White House National Action Plan to Combat Antibiotic-Resistant Bacteria
\(CARB\) Goal: By 2020, reduce inappropriate outpatient antibiotic use by
50%.](/ncezid/images/recent-work/improve-antibiotic-use.jpg)

On May 3, CDC's Division of Healthcare Quality Promotion in collaboration with
Pew Charitable Trusts, released findings in the Journal of the American
Medical AssociationExternal on the inappropriate use of antibiotics in
doctor's offices and emergency departments. At least 30% of antibiotics
prescribed in the United States are unnecessary, which is about 47 million
excess prescriptions that put people at unnecessary risk for allergic
reactions or infection with the sometimes deadly diarrhea-causing bacteria
_Clostridium difficile_.  CDC promotions included an op-ed authored by Dr.
Frieden, and the findings were featured in more than 160 news stories,
including 10 international outlets.

### Solve the "Mystery at the Border" with CDC app

![An image of a woman playing the Solve the Outbreak app on a
laptop.](/ncezid/images/recent-work/solve-the-outbreak.jpg)

CDC's Division of Global Migration and Quarantine's US-Mexico Unit, in
collaboration with subject matter experts from the Environmental Health
Services Branch and CDC's Division of High-Consequence Pathogens and
Pathology, recently released the "Mystery at the Border" outbreak scenario in
the second level of CDC's Solve the Outbreak app. This fictitious scenario is
based on a Guillain-Barre syndrome (GBS) binational outbreak in which the US-
Mexico unit participated in 2011. Players are presented with different layers
of information and data--case distribution maps, an odds ratio table from a
case control study, and bacteria tests results--to determine the cause of the
mysterious cases of paralysis in a small Arizona border town. This scenario is
particularly relevant as the threat of GBS as a potential complication of Zika
infection may be present along our southern land border.

### Zika Update

![Image of illustrated woman with hand over her belly and the words - Zika &
pregnancy](/ncezid/images/recent-work/zika-pregnancy.jpg)

In April we saw no sign of the Zika outbreak slowing down, but we continue to
break new ground in understanding this virus, allowing us to strengthen and
hone our efforts to protect those most at risk. At the same time, we are
continuing to prepare for the very real possibility that we will see cases of
locally acquired Zika in the United States.

Cases of Zika continue to increase - as of April 27, there were 426 travel-
associated cases reported in US states, and 600 locally acquired cases in
Puerto Rico, the US Virgin Islands, and American Samoa. New travel notices
were posted for Belize, Saint Lucia, Fiji, and Kosrae (Micronesia), bringing
the total number of affected countries and territories to 43.

Work on the response continued at a feverish pace at CDC in April. Along with
the successful ZAP Summit held April 1, which provided state and local senior
officials with information and tools needed to improve Zika preparedness and
response, CDC released the April issue of Vital Signs, which focused on Zika
and pregnancy, highlighting the potential consequences of Zika infection for
pregnant women. Although there are still many unanswered questions about Zika,
the issue identified many actions that can be taken--by federal, state, and
local agencies; healthcare providers; and individuals--to protect pregnant
women.

**Research and  laboratory activities**

In an articleCdc-pdf published this month in the _New England Journal of
Medicine_ , CDC scientists made a significant contribution to Zika research.
After a rigorous review of existing evidence, the authors concluded that Zika
virus is a cause of microcephaly and other severe fetal brain defects.
Establishing this causal relationship will help us to improve and focus our
research and response efforts so that we can better understand Zika and how it
affects pregnancies.

DVBD labs in Fort Collins have eliminated the backlog of specimens awaiting
molecular and serological testing as more state labs have come online. But as
the annual summer transmission for vector-borne diseases begins in North
America, we must all be prepared to deal with not only Zika, but also West
Nile, St. Louis, chikungunya, and other arboviruses, as well as Lyme, plague,
tularemia, and Rocky Mountain spotted fever. The Puerto Rico Department of
Health and the Dengue Branch continue their relentless pursuit of defeating
Zika--developing innovative diagnostics, finding effective ways of eliminating
_Aedes aegypti_ mosquitoes, and communicating with the public about
prevention.

**Sharing Zika research**

![Image of CDC neuroepidemiologist Jim Sejvar recently presented his team’s
study on Guillain Barré syndrome \(GBS\) and its association with Zika virus
at the American Academy of Neurology’s annual
conference](/ncezid/images/recent-work/zika-presenter-jim-sejvar.jpg)

CDC neuroepidemiologist Jim Sejvar recently presented his team's study on
Guillain Barre syndrome (GBS) and its association with Zika virus at the
American Academy of Neurology's annual conference, which drew 11,000
participants and is the world's largest gathering of neurologists. Jim
presented preliminary findings from the case-control study that CDC and
Brazilian colleagues began in January.

Among the insights he shared:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cases of GBS in Brazil are nearly 5 times the number we'd expect.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About half of GBS patients were still experiencing moderate to severe symptoms 6 months after they became ill.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nearly 90% of GBS patients reported a Zika-like illness before their GBS symptoms.

Immediately following the meeting, Jim jetted off to Colombia to join the team
that's launching a similar case-control study on GBS and Zika there. Clips
from the conference are hereExternal and hereExternal.

**Zika in the media**

_Time_ Magazine reporter Alexandra Sifferlin visited CDC in Atlanta on April
20 to interview CDC experts about the Zika response. She also visited the
Dengue Branch in Puerto Rico on April 22 and spoke with experts working on the
response. A storyExternal titled, "Why America's Top Health Official Is
Worried About Zika" ran in April and the cover story is tentatively scheduled
for the week of May 2.

### New cases of yellow fever in Africa and in Peru

![image of a red stamp of the words -Yellow Fever Virus
Alert](/ncezid/images/recent-work/yellow-fever-alert.jpg)

The yellow fever epidemic continues in Angola where, as of April 26, more than
2,000 suspected cases (> 650 confirmed) have been reported, including 257
deaths. The immunization program is accelerating but will draw down the world
vaccine reserves to a low level that could impede response to additional
epidemics before the supply can be replenished in 3 to 6 months. CDC staff
have been deployed to Luanda for 5 weeks to help conduct serological and
molecular testing and to evaluate CDC's new IgM MAC-ELISA, which yields
results in 4 hours instead of 2 days.

In the meantime, a cluster of confirmed yellow fever cases has been detected
in Masaka, Uganda. This outbreak, which does not appear to be connected to the
Angola epidemic, is in the southeastern part of the country, not typically
endemic for yellow fever. The index case patient was a charcoal maker who
might have been infected when cutting trees in the forest. As of late April,
there are 30 confirmed, probable, and suspected cases, including 6 deaths.

In addition to the outbreaks in Africa, the Pan American Health
OrganizationExternal reported that through the first week of April, there were
25 suspected and 9 confirmed cases of yellow fever, including 2 deaths in
central Peru. The number of cases reported in 2016 exceeds the total of cases
reported in the preceding 2 years. Currently, Peru is the only country in the
Americas to report confirmed yellow fever in 2016.

### Newly identified cluster of _Elizabethkingia_

![Image of scientist holding a red petri dish](/ncezid/images/recent-
work/elizabethkingia-scientist.jpg)

CDC continues to work with states to investigate the multistate outbreak of
_Elizabethkingia anophelis_ that has sickened 61 people and caused 20 deaths
in Wisconsin, Illinois, and Michigan to date. On April 20, Illinois health
officials announced a newly identified cluster of an additional 10 cases and 6
deaths in Illinois residents since January 1, 2014. Recent testing of the
specimens by CDC's Special Bacteriology Reference Laboratory confirmed that
the same strain made the 10 people sick, but it showed that the strain is
distinct from the strain that has been identified in Wisconsin. Investigation
into the Wisconsin outbreak has led to increased awareness of
_Elizabethkingia_ and additional reporting of cases to CDC. Advanced Molecular
Detection-related technological advancements in laboratory testing have
allowed scientists to differentiate _E. anophelis_ from other types of
_Elizabethkingia_ and to identify patient clusters within this species. As CDC
and state health departments work together to investigate these outbreaks,
other clusters may be identified. Meanwhile, experts continue to work to
identify possible sources of exposure in the outbreak.

### Rocky Mountain spotted fever prevention

![Image of a group of particpants who worked on a pilot project to prevent
Rocky Mountain spotted fever](/ncezid/images/recent-work/rocky-mountain-
fever.jpg)

In March, Epidemic Intelligence Service Officers from CDC (EISO) provided
technical assistance to the University of Sonora and Sonoran Secretary of
Health as they kicked off a pilot project to prevent Rocky Mountain spotted
fever in a high-incidence section of Hermosillo, Mexico. In this first visit,
more than 530 homes were registered to participate in the project and received
environmental pesticide applications. Roughly 800 dogs were treated with
acaricidal products such as tick collars, and almost 550 knowledge, attitudes,
and practices surveys were administered in the intervention and control
communities. Teams will return to help with monitoring every other month
starting in May.

### Zika Update

![A hand inside a box is covered by mosquitos.](/ncezid/images/recent-
work/zika-update-march.jpg)

Zika continues to spread to new areas in South and Central America, the
Caribbean, and the Pacific Islands, and NCEZID remains an active player in the
global response to the outbreak. CDC added five countries to its travel notice
for Zika in March: Cuba, Dominica, New Caledonia, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines, and Sint Maarten. We are especially concerned about Puerto Rico,
where the highest number of locally transmitted Zika virus disease cases in
the US territories has been reported. The number of cases will likely rise
with increasing mosquito activity, resulting in increased risk for
transmission to pregnant women. We are working in partnership with the Puerto
Rico Department of Health to protect pregnant women using multiple approaches
including the distribution of Zika Prevention Kits and focusing vector control
efforts on their homes. One way to reduce adverse pregnancy and birth outcomes
is to facilitate access to an effective contraceptive method for the estimated
138,000 women of reproductive age in Puerto Rico who do not desire pregnancy
but are not using a contraceptive. Access to contraception is constrained by
limited availability, high cost, and other factors. As a recent MMWR on this
topic suggested, removing barriers to contraception can lead to reduced rates
of unintended pregnancy, which would result in fewer adverse pregnancy and
birth outcomes associated with Zika in Puerto Rico. CDC and other partners
have initiated multiple approaches to address some of these barriers.

Local transmission of Zika has still not been reported in the continental
United States, but as of March 30, there were 312 travel-associated cases
reported in 41 states and Washington, DC. Of those 312 cases, 27 were in
pregnant women, 6 were sexually transmitted, and 1 had Guillain-Barre
syndrome. As the weather warms up, it's likely we will see cases transmitted
via mosquitoes here in the continental United States. We've been working hard
to make sure states are prepared for that possibility. One way we're doing
this is through the Zika Action Plan (ZAP) Summit, which was held at CDC on
April 1.

**_Providing resources and guidance_**

CDC also continues to provide tools and resources for travelers, pregnant
women, healthcare providers, and others. The US Zika Pregnancy Registry is now
available online and will help us collect information about Zika infection
during pregnancy. The data collected will be used to update recommendations
and help improve prevention and care services for pregnant women and families
affected by Zika. Throughout March, a number of publications have been posted
on the Zika website on a variety of topics including guidance about preventing
sexual transmission in the United States and providing health care for women
with possible Zika exposure, as well as a communication planning guide for
states, to name just a few.

**_Activity in the labs_**  
The past month has also seen amazing output from NCEZID laboratories, with two
new diagnostic tests issued Emergency Use Authorizations (EUAs) by the FDA.
These tests will expand capacity for US labs to test for Zika and help us to
rapidly detect cases. An EUA was issued for a CDC-developed test (Zika MAC-
ELISA) that detects antibodies that the body makes to fight a Zika virus
infection. Currently, 15 US state public health laboratories (2 labs in
Florida) are qualified to use this test.

The Trioplex RT-PCR Assay, developed by CDC's Dengue Branch, was authorized on
March 17. The Trioplex combines three tests (for Zika, dengue, and
chikungunya) into one, reducing costs and increasing throughput. The Trioplex
has been adapted to be run on equipment that is common in public health labs
in the United States and abroad.

CDC's Division of Vector-Borne Diseases is receiving more than 1,000 Zika
specimens a week. Starting March 21, the Bacterial Diseases Branch expanded
testing capacity in their laboratories to expand over all capacity in Fort
Collins, Colorado. The laboratory at the Dengue Branch in Puerto Rico,
currently is receiving about 200 samples per day. Although the testing volume
in Fort Collins likely will diminish as states develop capacity, CDC labs will
continue to play a pivotal role in diagnostic testing for the foreseeable
future.

Dengue Branch continues to play a huge role in our response, supporting the
Puerto Rico Department of Health in all aspects of the response, conducting
mosquito testing to get a sense of insecticide resistance of _Aedes aegypti_
and scaling up testing capacity to accurately diagnose and protect pregnant
women on the island.

### April 1 ZAP Summit

![A graphical background of a cyan-colored globe behind the words: “Zika
Action Plan Summit – CDC Atlanta, GA”](/ncezid/images/recent-work/zika-action-
plan-summit.jpg)

Hosted by CDC, the Zika Action Plan Summit on April 1 brought together
officials from local, state, and federal jurisdictions, as well as non-
governmental organizations to prepare for a coordinated US response to Zika.
The United States likely faces local mosquito-borne transmission of Zika virus
in some places in the continental United States; local transmissionCdc-pdf
means the mosquitoes in an area are infected with the virus and have spread it
to humans. The Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, US Virgin Islands, and American
Samoa already are experiencing local mosquito-borne transmission of Zika. The
US government planned this Summit to give state and local senior officials the
information and tools they need to improve their ability to prepare for and
respond to local Zika transmission in their states and jurisdictions. The goal
is to arm state and local leaders with the knowledge and technical support
they need to have a comprehensive Zika Readiness Action Plan for their
jurisdictions.

### Massive yellow fever outbreak poses global threat

![A stethoscope, glasses and capsules surrounding a page with the words
“Yellow Fever.”](/ncezid/images/recent-work/yellow-fever-outbreak-global-
threat.jpg)

On March 30, the Angola Ministry of Health reported that the yellow fever
outbreak has resulted in more than 1,400 suspected cases, 490 confirmed cases,
and 198 deaths. The outbreak threatens to spill into neighboring countries.
More than 5 million doses of vaccine have been distributed, and the Angola
Ministry of Health (MoH) is using an additional 1 million vaccine doses to
complete vaccination campaigns in the remaining municipalities of Luanda where
vaccine is needed. However, the MoH and WHO are currently requesting about 3.5
million more yellow fever vaccine doses to cover outlying provinces. Cases
have been reported among travelers returning home to China, Kenya, the
Democratic Republic of Congo, and Mauritania. _Aedes aegypti_ mosquitoes that
transmit dengue and Zika viruses also transmit yellow fever virus. CDC is
concerned about the spread of yellow fever to other African countries because
of a shortage of vaccine.

CDC has issued a Travel Health Notice (level 1, watch - "practice usual
precautions") for people traveling to Angola. Travelers to countries with
endemic yellow fever should be vaccinated.

CDC's has been providing critical support to the response, with consultation
with WHO and others on the response strategy. CDC's vector-borne experts also
manufactured 140 ready-to-use IgM test kits that includes premade, premeasured
components that can be stored for at least 6 months without the need for
freezing and are capable of testing approximately 3,360 specimens. Other CDC
staffers were deployed to Luanda to help with testing. They also trained
laboratorians on how to use the test kits and how to run the reverse
transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test for yellow fever.

### Searching for the culprit in a deadly outbreak

![The bacteria Elizabethkingia anophelis is shown as white streaks growing on
top of a reddish-brown growth medium in petri dish.](/ncezid/images/recent-
work/deadly-elizabethkingia-outbreak.jpg)

CDC's laboratory scientists and epidemiologists have been hard at work trying
to find the culprit in the ongoing _Elizabethkingia anophelis_ outbreak that
has so far sickened more than 56 people in Wisconsin and 1 in Michigan,
leading to 18 deaths. Epi investigations and hundreds of tests haven't yet
been able to identify a common exposure among patients or a common
environmental link. We have, however, learned a significant amount about this
organism, including that it can survive in alcohol and high temperatures.
Because we have also used new technologies like MALDI-ToF and whole genome
sequencing, we have discovered that this species, _E. anophelis_ , once
thought to be rare, is more common than we previously thought.

### March Vital Signs: US doing a better job preventing HAIs

![An image with a stethoscope laying on paper in the forefront with people
lying in hospital beds in background.](/ncezid/images/recent-work/better-job-
preventing-hai.jpg)

According to the March Vital Signs, America is doing a better job of
preventing healthcare-associated infections (HAIs), but more work is needed -
especially in fighting antibiotic-resistant bacteria. The report urges
healthcare workers to use a combination of infection control recommendations
to better protect patients from these infections.

The MMWR shows that many of the most urgent and serious antibiotic-resistant
bacteria threaten patients while they are being treated in healthcare
facilities for other conditions, and may lead to sepsis or death. In acute
care hospitals, 1 in 7 catheter- and surgery-related HAIs can be caused by any
of the 6 antibiotic-resistant bacteria. That number increases to 1 in 4
infections in long-term acute care hospitals, which treat patients who are
generally very sick and stay, on average, more than 25 days.

Along with this report, CDC released two other resources:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The updated annual progress report on HAI prevention shows acute care hospitals achieved a 50% decrease in central line-associated bloodstream infections (CLABSIs) between 2008 and 2014, but 1 in 6 remaining CLABSIs are caused by urgent or serious antibiotic-resistant bacteria. The report also shows that progress was made in decreasing hospital-onset _C. difficile_ infections by 8% between 2011 and 2014.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Antibiotic Resistance Patient Safety Atlas is a new web app with interactive data on HAIs caused by antibiotic-resistant bacteria. This tool provides national, regional, and state map views of superbug/drug combinations showing the percentage of these superbugs that are resistant to antibiotics over time. The atlas uses data that more than 4,000 healthcare facilities reported to CDC's National Healthcare Safety Network from 2011 to 2014.

### Zika Update

![Illustration of a mosquito silhouette against a background of concentric
circles with a gradient pink salmon color getting darker with each circle.
With the words: Zika Virus. What We Know](/ncezid/images/recent-work/zika-
what-we-know.png)

Zika dominated the headlines in February, its reach extending to all corners
of CDC as we escalated our efforts to contain the outbreak and learn more
about this complex and multidimensional disease. The National Center for
Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID) is leading CDC's response,
working in close collaboration with other CDC centers as well as US and global
partners.

CDC's response to Zika is expanding as the virus continues to spread across
the Americas and Pacific islands. On February 1, the World Health Organization
declared Zika a Public Health Emergency of International ConcernExternal
because of clusters of microcephaly and other neurological disorders in some
of the affected areas. On February 8, CDC elevated its response efforts to a
Level 1 activation, the highest response level at the agency, previously used
only for H1N1, Hurricane Katrina, and Ebola.

CDC's travel notices for Zika now cover more than 30 countries and US
territories. Thus far, Zika has not been spread by mosquitoes in the
continental United States, although cases have been reported in travelers
returning to the United States. Cases of sexual transmission have also been
reported and are being investigated. The agency continues to release
guidelines for healthcare providers, laboratories, and other groups as we
learn more about this disease--most importantly its link to birth defects. In
addition to our work here at headquarters, CDC staff have been deployed to
Brazil, Panama, and the US territories of Puerto Rico, American Samoa, and the
US Virgin Islands.

_Leading the charge_  
NCEZID's Division of Vector-Borne Diseases (DVBD) has taken a leadership role
in the response and is engaged on numerous fronts. In addition to contributing
subject matter expertise, DVBD staff are leading several epidemiological
investigations, including a case-control study in Brazil to further
investigate the link between Zika virus and microcephaly. DVBD laboratorians
are playing a critical role, even beyond testing more than 1,000 clinical
specimens of Zika that have been submitted by state health departments. The
division's labs have also developed all the data for emergency use
authorization (EUA) submission of assays and distributed reagents for the
assays.

Other NCEZID divisions are supporting the response in a variety of ways. The
Division of High-Consequence Pathogens and Pathology's Infectious Diseases
Pathology Branch (IDPB) Lab played a key role in making the link between Zika
infection and miscarriage or microcephaly. IDPB staff developed tests to
detect Zika virus in tissue samples. They performed the tests on tissue
samples from two babies with microcephaly who died shortly after birth and
tissues from two miscarriages. All four mothers reported having Zika symptoms
during their first trimester. They found Zika virus in all of the samples, and
it was the same strain of Zika that has been circulating in Brazil. These
findings are the strongest evidence yet of a link between Zika and
microcephaly or fetal loss. Another group from DHCPP recently traveled to
Brazil to study the potential association between Zika virus infection and
Guillain-Barre syndrome.

Also, the Division of Global Migration and Quarantine has regularly updated
travel notices to reflect the expansion of the outbreak; the Division of
Healthcare Quality Promotion has been working with FDA to ensure the safety of
the blood supply in Puerto Rico as well as in the US and US territories; the
Division of Preparedness and Emerging Infections has assisted with EUA
submission for Zika tests; and the Division of Scientific Resources has
manufactured PCR diagnostic kits to test for active infection of Zika virus.

### Antibiotic Resistance Solutions Initiative

![Vector image of three illustrated circles One with pills in front of a
hospital, another shows a hand with a symbol of germs, and the last, a cluster
of random pathogens](/ncezid/images/recent-work/slow-antibiotic-
resistance.png)

With $160 million in marked funding from Congress, CDC's Antibiotic Resistance
(AR) Solutions Initiative will be able to transform how CDC and public health
partners tackle and slow antibiotic resistance at all levels. It will empower
the nation to respond comprehensively, efficiently, and effectively to one of
the world's biggest infectious disease threats and will result in
collaborations involving many centers at CDC working with a number of private
and public partners, including state health departments. The AR Solutions
Initiative will support several critical programs and projects as well as new
and ongoing CDC work, including:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The AR Regional Lab Network, for nationwide detection of new and known threats, and expanded capacity for 50 state labs to track and stop CRE (carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State prevention programs to drive adoption of a coordinated approach to improve infection control.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Robust systems to track resistance, antibiotic use, and infections in the community and healthcare settings.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Education and prevention for antibiotic stewardship and sepsis recognition and prevention.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Expanded overseas TB screenings and a national TB stockpile to prevent shortages of medicine needed to treat TB.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Increased capacity for state laboratories to rapidly investigate outbreaks of antibiotic-resistant foodborne infections using whole genome sequencing.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Rapid detection, tracking, and treatment for antibiotic-resistant gonorrhea.

### The risk of sprouting

![Clear square package of alfalfa sprouts against a white
background](/ncezid/images/recent-work/alfalfa-sprouts.png)

Three foodborne outbreaks linked to sprouts and sprouted products are
currently under investigation by CDC's Outbreak Response Team:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Multistate outbreak of 18 _Salmonella_ Virchow infections in 15 states linked to Garden of Life RAW Meal powdered meal replacement products.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Multistate outbreak of 13 _Salmonella_ Muenchen infections in 4 states linked to alfalfa sprouts produced by Sweetwater Farms of Inman, Kansas.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Multistate outbreak of 9 E. coli O157:H7 infections in 2 states linked to alfalfa sprouts produced by Jack & The Green Sprouts of River Falls, Wisconsin.

Sprouts are a known source of foodborne illnessExternal. Children, older
adults, pregnant women, and people with weakened immune systems should avoid
eating raw sprouts of any kind (including alfalfa, clover, radish, and mung
bean sprouts). The current outbreak linked to Garden of Life RAW Meal powdered
meal replacement is the third multistate outbreak in recent years linked to a
sprouted product (rather than the sprouts themselves); the other contaminated
products were raw, sprouted nut butters and chia powder.

### 2015 NCEZID Accomplishments now online!

![Partial image of the cover for NCEZID Accomplishments
2015](/ncezid/images/recent-work/accomplishments-2015.png)

The annual recap of highlights of NCEZID work and accomplishments is now
onlineCdc-pdf. NCEZID works to protect people at home and around the world
from emerging and zoonotic diseases from A to Z--anthrax to Zika. These
highlights include responses to several domestic and global outbreaks, getting
Ebola on the road to zero, the ramped-up plans to reduce antibiotic
resistance, and some remarkable examples of discovery and innovation that took
place in 2015. We include a "looking ahead" page, written just as Zika was
appearing on the horizon. The infectious disease timeline is a good reminder
of the tremendous work to prevent infections and save lives that NCEZID has
accomplished in the first half of the decade.

### Zika virus continues to spread

![Dark background behind a mosquito showing an abdomen full of
blood](/ncezid/images/recent-work/zika-mosquito.jpg)

In May 2015, the Pan American Health Organization issued an alert regarding
the first confirmed Zika virus infection in Brazil. Zika is a mosquito-borne
virus that causes an illness with usually mild symptoms lasting from several
days to a week in only about 20% of infected people; most people have no
symptoms.

However, during the current outbreak, there have been reports of a serious
birth defect of the brain called microcephaly and other poor pregnancy
outcomes in babies of mothers who were infected with Zika virus while
pregnant. Knowledge of the link between Zika and these outcomes is evolving,
but until more is known, CDC is recommending special precautions for pregnant
women and women trying to become pregnant. Beginning January 15, CDC began
issuing travel alerts (Level 2-Practice Enhanced Precautions) for people
traveling to countries where Zika virus transmission is ongoing. The notices
recommend that pregnant women consider postponing travel to any of these
areas. For women trying to become pregnant, CDC recommends that they talk to
their doctor before travel about the risk of Zika virus infection. More
studies are planned to better understand the risks of Zika virus infection
during pregnancy. Additionally, a team from CDC is currently in Brazil to
investigate another issue--an outbreak of Guillain-Barre syndrome (GBS) that
coincides with Zika's arrival. There is much to be done to better understand
and control this emerging infectious disease.

### Outbreak of listeriosis linked to packaged salads

![A spilled bagged salad of mixed greens on a white
background](/ncezid/images/recent-work/lysteria-salad.jpg)

Since September 2015, CDC has been collaborating with public health officials
in several states and the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate
a multistate outbreak of _Listeria_ monocytogenes infections (listeriosis)
linked to packaged salads. As of January 28, a total of 15 people from 8
states were reported to have been infected. All 15 people were hospitalized,
including 1 person from Michigan who died. Packaged salads produced at the
Dole processing facility in Springfield, Ohio, and sold under various brand
names are the likely source of this outbreak. The Ohio Department of
Agriculture isolated _Listeria_ from Field Greens packaged salad produced at
Dole's Springfield processing facility, and whole genome sequencing showed
that the isolate from the salad was highly related genetically to isolates
from the ill people. On January 21, Dole stopped all production at the
Springfield processing facility and withdrew all packaged salads currently on
the market that were produced at this facility. CDC and state and local public
health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet  to
identify additional ill people and to interview them.

### New investment in combating antibiotic resistance

![Vector style image of man in hospital bed with a doctor standing by. Above
three circles with a vial, microscope and exclaimation point. Representing the
concept of combating antibiotic resistance](/ncezid/images/recent-work/combat-
ar.jpg)

In December, Congress passed the spending bill that included $160 million for
the Antibiotic Resistance (AR) Solutions Initiative. The AR Solutions
Initiative provides critical increased investment in CDC programs to combat
antibiotic-resistant bacteria. The funding will support better tracking of
antibiotic use and resistance, improved prescribing practices, state protect
programs, and an AR regional lab network. More specifics on the roll-out of
the plan will come in the next few months.

### Emergence of antifungal resistance in a common fungus

![a 3D image of Candida  - long purple rod shapes linked at their ends with
clusters of grape-like clusters at the joints of the rod
shapes](/ncezid/images/recent-work/candida-ar.jpg)

The fungus _Candida_ is now the most common cause of hospital-associated
bloodstream infections in the United States. Some species, like _Candida
glabrata_ , are showing increased resistance to multiple classes of antifungal
medications, such as azoles and echinocandins. As a result, patients with
these resistant infections have few remaining treatment options. CDC's Mycotic
Diseases Branch has published a reportExternaldescribing the epidemiology and
risk factors for echinocandin-resistant _C. glabrata_ bloodstream infections.
The proportion of _C. glabrata_ infections that were resistant to
echinocandins nearly doubled from 2008 through 2014. At some hospitals, nearly
a quarter of these infections were resistant to echinocandins. Prior
echinocandin exposure was significantly associated with resistant _C.
glabrata_ infection; however, more than half of the patients infected with
echinocandin-resistant _C. glabrata_ had no known prior exposure to the
antifungal medication, suggesting possible transmission of echinocandin-
resistant _C. glabrata_ between patients.

Page last reviewed: February 3, 2017

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID)

home NCEZID

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Who We Areplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Division and Office Overviewsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DFWED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DGMQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DHCPP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DHQP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DPEI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DSR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DVBD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OAMD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OHO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Organizational Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Director Profile
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Strategic Plans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Budget
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About Our Name
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CLIA Certificates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Connect with Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Whatâs Newplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Newsroom 2020plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Newsroom 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Newsroom 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Newsroom 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Newsroom 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Newsroom 2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * What We Doplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Recent Workplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Our Work: 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Our Work: 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Our Work: 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Our Work: 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Our Work: 2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Our Topicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Antibiotic-Resistant Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Border Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Deadly Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Foodborne Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Global Work
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Healthcare-Associated Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Laboratory Science
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Outbreak Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * One Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Public Health Preparedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * State, Local, and Tribal Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Technological Innovations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Vector-borne Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Waterborne and Fungal Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cross-cutting Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Protecting Health at Home & Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * NCEZID Around The World
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tribal Health in Action
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Innovationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Introduction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Antibiotic Resistance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Biothreats
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fungal Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Hantavirus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Laboratory Science
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Rabies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Smallpox
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Preventing Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Rocky Mountain spotted fever
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Waterborne Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Whole Genome Sequencing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Future Innovations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Publicationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2019 Highlightsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Moving the needle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Breaking the mold
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Collaborating to make a difference
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Combating infections in the US
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Confronting infections across the globe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Protecting travelersâ health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Observing significant milestones
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Looking Ahead to 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2018 Highlightsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Protecting Patients from Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Protecting People from Domestic Health Threats
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Fighting Global Outbreaks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Safeguarding Travelers & Border Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Building Lab and Epi Capacity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * One Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Advanced Molecular Detection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Looking Ahead to 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2017 Highlightsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Our Year in Numbers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Antibiotic Resistance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Vector-borne
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Global & Border Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Outbreaks (Domestic)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Outbreaks (Global)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Support to States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Sharing Lab Expertise
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2016 Highlights
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2015 Highlights
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2014 Highlights
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2013 Highlights
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2011-2012 Highlights
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Our Partnersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC and Hilton Foundation partner to improve global water, sanitation, and hygiene
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Vector-borne Disease Center of Excellence Provides Much-Needed Assistance After Hurricane Harvey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * New rapid rabies test could revolutionize testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Hatcheries work with CDC to prevent _Salmonella_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Healthier and safer in the water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Protecting travelersâ health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The power of innovation to advance public health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Prevent illnesses between people and pets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * NCEZID partners on cryptococcal screening in South Africa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC and BD Partner to Fight Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * World leaders partner to combat antibiotic resistance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Airline helps CDC save lives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Turning human waste into affordable fuel in Kenya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Promoting Antibiotic Stewardship
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 100 Partners Work to Promote Safe Injection Practices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Global Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Protecting People in Haiti from Deadly Rabies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tracking Viral Hemorrhagic Fevers in Uganda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Strengthening Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene Workforce in Sierra Leone
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Making Plague a Disease of the Past in Uganda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Testing New Tools To Fight Monkeypox Outbreaks in Democratic Republic of the Congo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ending Cholera Globally
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Improving Diagnoses of Zika and Other Vector-Borne Diseases in Indonesia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Protecting Newborns in India from Antibiotic-Resistant Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Training Infection Prevention and Control Specialists in Nigeria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC Responds to a Dangerous Fungus Here and Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Antibiotic Resistance in India
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epidemiology Training Helps Cholera Response in Kenya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ebola Response in Sierra Leone
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * HAIs in the Country of Georgia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Vector-borne Disease Research in Uganda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CHAMPS Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Global Rabies Work
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zoonotic Diseases in Ethiopia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ebola Reservoir Study
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Animations and Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Medscape Commentaries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Graphics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mobile Apps

Social_govd govD  Get Email Updates

To receive a monthly update highlighting our recent work to prevent infectious
disease, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

