https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/products/databriefs/db328.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/products/databriefs/db328.htm    
                Description: Mortality in the United States, 2017    
                Keywords: NCHS,  National Center for Health Statistics,  Statistics,  CDC,  Data,  Health,  drinks,  NHANES, Data &amp; Stats    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search

All CDC

All CDC Search NCHS

Submit

For a full list of topics: All A-Z Topics

National Center for Health Statistics

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate

# Mortality in the United States, 2017

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Key findings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How long can we expect to live?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * What are the age-adjusted death rates for race-ethnicity-sex groups?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Did age-specific death rates change among those aged 15 years and over?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * What are the leading causes of death?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * What are the leading causes of infant death?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Definitions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Data source and methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About the authors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * References
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Suggested citation

NCHS Data Brief No. 328, November 2018

PDF Versionpdf icon (481 KB)

Sherry L. Murphy, B.S., Jiaquan Xu, M.D., Kenneth D. Kochanek, M.A., and
Elizabeth Arias, Ph.D.

### Key findings

**Data from the National Vital Statistics System**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Life expectancy for the U.S. population declined to 78.6 years in 2017.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The age-adjusted death rate increased by 0.4% from 728.8 deaths per 100,000 standard population in 2016 to 731.9 in 2017.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Age-specific death rates increased from 2016 to 2017 for age groups 25-34, 35-44, and 85 and over, and decreased for the age group 45-54.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The 10 leading causes of death in 2017 remained the same as in 2016.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The infant mortality rate of 579.3 infant deaths per 100,000 live births in 2017 was not significantly different from the 2016 rate.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The 10 leading causes of infant death in 2017 remained the same as in 2016 although  
4 causes changed ranks.

This report presents final 2017 U.S. mortality data on deaths and death rates
by demographic and medical characteristics. These data provide information on
mortality patterns among U.S. residents by variables such as sex, race and
ethnicity, and cause of death. Life expectancy estimates, age-specific death
rates, age-adjusted death rates by race and ethnicity and sex, 10 leading
causes of death, and 10 leading causes of infant death were analyzed by
comparing 2017 and 2016 final data (1).

**Keywords** : _life expectancy, leading cause, National Vital Statistics
System_



### How long can we expect to live?

In 2017, life expectancy at birth was 78.6 years for the total U.S. population
--a decrease from 78.7 years in 2016 (Figure 1). For males, life expectancy
changed from 76.2 in 2016 to 76.1 in 2017. For females, life expectancy
remained the same at 81.1.

Life expectancy for females was consistently higher than it was for males. In
2017, the difference in life expectancy between females and males increased
0.1 year from 4.9 years in 2016 to 5.0 years in 2017.

In 2017, life expectancy at age 65 for the total population was 19.5 years, an
increase of 0.1 year from 2016. Life expectancy at age 65 was 20.6 years for
females and 18.1 years for males, both unchanged from 2016. The difference in
life expectancy at age 65 between females and males was 2.5 years, unchanged
from 2016.

Figure 1. Life expectancy at selected ages, by sex: United States, 2016 and
2017

  
![Figure 1 is a bar graph showing the life expectancy, in years, at select
ages, by sex in the United States in 2016 and
2017.](/nchs/images/databriefs/301-350/db328_fig1.gif)image icon

NOTES: Life expectancies for 2016 were revised using updated Medicare data;
therefore, figures may differ from those previously published. Access data
table for Figure 1pdf icon.  
SOURCE: NCHS, National Vital Statistics System, Mortality.



### What are the age-adjusted death rates for race-ethnicity-sex groups?

The age-adjusted death rate for the total population increased 0.4% from 728.8
per 100,000 standard population in 2016 to 731.9 in 2017 (Figure 2). Age-
adjusted death rates increased in 2017 from 2016 for non-Hispanic white males
(0.6%) and non-Hispanic white females (0.9%). The age-adjusted death rate
decreased for non-Hispanic black females (0.8%). Rates did not change
significantly for non-Hispanic black males, Hispanic males, and Hispanic
females from 2016 to 2017.

Figure 2. Age-adjusted death rates, by race and ethnicity and sex: United
States, 2016 and 2017

  
![Figure 2 is a bar graph showing the age-adjusted death rates by race, and
ethnicity and sex in the United States in 2016 and
2017.](/nchs/images/databriefs/301-350/db328_fig2.gif)image icon

1Statistically significant increase in age-adjusted death rate from 2016 to
2017 ( _p_ < 0.05).  
2Statistically significant decrease in age-adjusted death rate from 2016 to
2017 ( _p_ < 0.05).  
NOTE: Access data table for Figure 2pdf icon.  
SOURCE: NCHS, National Vital Statistics System, Mortality.



### Did age-specific death rates change among those aged 15 years and over?

Death rates increased significantly between 2016 and 2017 for age groups 25-34
(2.9%), 35-44 (1.6%), and 85 and over (1.4%) (Figure 3).

The death rate decreased significantly for age group 45-54 (1.0%).

Rates for other age groups did not change significantly between 2016 and 2017.

Figure 3. Death rates for ages 15 years and over: United States, 2016 and 2017

  
![Figure 3 is a bar graph showing death rates for ages 15 years and over in
the United States in 2016 and
2017.](/nchs/images/databriefs/301-350/db328_fig3.gif)image icon

1Statistically significant increase in age-specific death rate from 2016 to
2017 ( _p_ < 0.05).  
2Statistically significant decrease in age-specific death rate from 2016 to
2017 ( _p_ < 0.05).  
NOTES: Rates are plotted on a logarithmic scale. Access data table for Figure
3pdf icon.  
SOURCE: NCHS, National Vital Statistics System, Mortality.



### What are the leading causes of death?

In 2017, the 10 leading causes of death (heart disease, cancer, unintentional
injuries, chronic lower respiratory diseases, stroke, Alzheimer disease,
diabetes, influenza and pneumonia, kidney disease, and suicide) remained the
same as in 2016. Causes of death are ranked according to number of deaths (1).
The 10 leading causes accounted for 74.0% of all deaths in the United States
in 2017.

From 2016 to 2017, age-adjusted death rates increased for 7 of 10 leading
causes of death and decreased for 1 (Figure 4). The rate increased 4.2% for
unintentional injuries, 0.7% for chronic lower respiratory diseases, 0.8% for
stroke, 2.3% for Alzheimer disease, 2.4% for diabetes, 5.9% for influenza and
pneumonia, and 3.7% for suicide. The rate decreased 2.1% for cancer. Rates for
heart disease and kidney disease did not change significantly.

Figure 4. Age-adjusted death rates for the 10 leading causes of death: United
States, 2016 and 2017

  
![Figure 4 is a bar graph showing the age-adjusted death rates for the 10
leading causes of death in the United States in 2016 and
2017.](/nchs/images/databriefs/301-350/db328_fig4.gif)image icon

1Statistically significant decrease in age-adjusted death rate from 2016 to
2017 ( _p_ < 0.05).  
2Statistically significant increase in age-adjusted death rate from 2016 to
2017 ( _p_ < 0.05).  
NOTE: A total of 2,813,503 resident deaths were registered in the United
States in 2017. The 10 leading causes accounted for 74.0% of all deaths in the
United States in 2017. Causes of death are ranked according to number of
deaths. Rankings for 2016 data are not shown. Data table for Figure 4 includes
the number of deaths for leading causes. Access data table for Figure 4pdf
icon.  
SOURCE: NCHS, National Vital Statistics System, Mortality.



### What are the leading causes of infant death?

The infant mortality rate (IMR)--the ratio of infant deaths to live births in
a given year--is generally regarded as a good indicator of the overall health
of a population. IMR changed from 587.0 infant deaths per 100,000 live births
in 2016 to 579.3 in 2017, but this change was not statistically significant.

The 10 leading causes of infant death in 2017 accounted for 67.8% of all
infant deaths in the United States. The leading causes remained the same as in
2016 although maternal complications became the third leading cause while
sudden infant death syndrome became the fourth, and diseases of the
circulatory system became the eighth leading cause while respiratory distress
of newborn became the ninth (Figure 5). Causes of infant death are ranked
according to number of infant deaths (1). IMR for unintentional injuries
increased 10.7% from 30.9 infant deaths per 100,000 live births in 2016 to
34.2 in 2017. Mortality rates for other leading causes of infant death did not
change significantly.

Figure 5. Infant mortality rates for the 10 leading causes of infant death in
2017: United States, 2016 and 2017

  
![Figure 5 is a bar graph showing the infant mortality rates for the 10
leading causes of infant death in the United States in 2016 and
2017.](/nchs/images/databriefs/301-350/db328_fig5.gif)image icon

1Statistically significant increase in mortality rate from 2016 to 2017 ( _p_
< 0.05).  
NOTE: A total of 22,335 deaths occurred in children under age 1 year in the
United States in 2017, with an infant mortality rate of 579.3 infant deaths
per 100,000 live births. The 10 leading causes of infant death in 2017
accounted for 67.8% of all infant deaths in the United States. A total of
23,161 infant deaths occurred in 2016, with an infant mortality rate of 587.0
infant deaths per 100,000 live births. Causes of death are ranked according to
number of deaths. Rankings for 2016 data are not shown. Data table for Figure
5 includes the number of deaths under age 1 year for leading causes of infant
death. Access data table for Figure 5pdf icon.  
SOURCE: NCHS, National Vital Statistics System, Mortality.



### Summary

In 2017, a total of 2,813,503 resident deaths were registered in the United
States--69,255 more deaths than in 2016. From 2016 to 2017, the age-adjusted
death rate for the total population increased 0.4%, and life expectancy at
birth decreased 0.1 year. Age-specific death rates between 2016 and 2017
increased for age groups 25-34, 35-44, and 85 and over, and decreased for age
group 45-54\. Age-adjusted death rates increased for non-Hispanic white males
and non-Hispanic white females and decreased for non-Hispanic black females.

The 10 leading causes of death in 2017 remained the same as in 2016. Age-
adjusted death rates increased for seven leading causes and decreased for one.
Life expectancy at birth decreased 0.1 year from 78.7 years in 2016 to 78.6 in
2017, largely because of increases in mortality from unintentional injuries,
suicide, diabetes, and influenza and pneumonia, with unintentional injuries
making the largest contribution.

In 2017, a total of 22,335 deaths occurred among children under age 1 year,
which was 826 fewer infant deaths than in 2016. The leading causes of infant
death were the same in 2017 and 2016 although maternal complications became
the third leading cause while sudden infant death syndrome became the fourth,
and diseases of the circulatory system became the eighth leading cause while
respiratory distress of newborn became the ninth. The only significant change
among the 10 leading causes of infant death was a 10.7% increase in IMR for
unintentional injuries.



### Definitions

**Cause of death** : Based on medical information--including injury diagnoses
and external causes of injury--entered on death certificates filed in the
United States. This information is classified and coded in accordance with the
_International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health
Problems, Tenth Revision_ (2).

**Death rates** : For 2017, based on population estimates for July 1, 2017,
that are consistent with the April 1, 2010, census. These population estimates
(as well as population figures for the 2010 census) are available on the
National Center for Health Statistics' (NCHS) website (3). Age-adjusted death
rates are useful when comparing different populations because they remove the
potential bias that can occur when the populations being compared have
different age structures. NCHS uses the direct method of standardization; see
Technical Notes of "Deaths: Final Data for 2016" (1) for more information.

**Infant mortality rate (IMR)** : Computed by dividing the number of infant
deaths in a calendar year by the number of live births registered for that
same time period. IMR is the most widely used index for measuring the risk of
dying during the first year of life.

**Leading causes of death** : Ranked according to the number of deaths
assigned to rankable causes (4).

**Life expectancy** : The expected average number of years of life remaining
at a given age. It is denoted by _e_ x, which means the average number of
subsequent years of life for someone now aged _x_. Life expectancy estimates
for 2017 are based on a methodology first implemented with 2008 final
mortality data (5). Life expectancies for 2016 were revised using updated
Medicare data; therefore, figures may differ from those previously published
(1). Life expectancies for 2017 may change slightly when updated Medicare data
become available.



### Data source and methods

The data shown in this report reflect information collected by NCHS for 2016
and 2017 from death certificates filed in all 50 states and the District of
Columbia and compiled into national data known as the National Vital
Statistics System. The standard presentation of life expectancy estimates are
rounded to one decimal place. Changes in life expectancy, computed using
figures rounded to one decimal, may slightly overestimate or underestimate the
actual change. Changes in life expectancy from 2016 to 2017 using unrounded
estimates were less than 0.1 year. Death rates shown in this report are
calculated based on postcensal population estimates as of July 1, 2016, and
July 1, 2017, which are consistent with the April 1, 2010, census. Differences
between death rates were evaluated using a two-tailed _z_ test.



### About the authors

Sherry L. Murphy, Jiaquan Xu, Kenneth D. Kochanek, and Elizabeth Arias are
with the National Center for Health Statistics, Division of Vital Statistics.



### References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1. Xu JQ, Murphy SL, Kochanek KD, Bastian B, Arias E. Deaths: Final data for 2016. National Vital Statistics Reports; vol 67 no 5. Hyattsville, MD: National Center for Health Statistics. 2018.pdf icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2. World Health Organization. International statistical classification of diseases and related health problems, tenth revision (ICD-10). 5th ed. Geneva, Switzerland. 2016.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3. National Center for Health Statistics. U.S. census populations with bridged-race categories. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4. Heron M. Deaths: Leading causes for 2016. National Vital Statistics Reports; vol 67 no 6. Hyattsville, MD: National Center for Health Statistics. 2016.pdf icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5. Arias E. United States life tables, 2008. National Vital Statistics Reports; vol 61 no 3. Hyattsville, MD: National Center for Health Statistics. 2012. pdf icon



### Suggested citation

Murphy SL, Xu JQ, Kochanek KD, Arias E. Mortality in the United States, 2017.
NCHS Data Brief, no 328. Hyattsville, MD: National Center for Health
Statistics. 2018.

#### Copyright information

All material appearing in this report is in the public domain and may be
reproduced or copied without permission; citation as to source, however, is
appreciated.

#### National Center for Health Statistics

Charles J. Rothwell, M.S., M.B.A., _Director_  
Jennifer H. Madans, Ph.D., _Associate Director for Science_

##### Division of Vital Statistics

Steven Schwartz, Ph.D., _Director_  
Hanyu Ni, Ph.D., M.P.H., _Associate Director for Science_

Page last reviewed: November 29, 2018

Content source: CDC/National Center for Health Statistics

home Publications and Information Products

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Data Briefs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health E-Stats
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health, United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Life Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * National Health Statistics Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * National Vital Statistics Reports expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * NVSR Monthly Provisional Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Vital and Health Statistics Series expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Series 1. Programs and Collection Procedures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Series 2. Data Evaluation and Methods Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Series 3. Analytical and Epidemiological Studies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Series 4. Documents and Committee Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Series 5. International Vital and Health Statistics Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Series 6. Cognition and Survey Measurement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Series 10. Data From the National Health Interview Survey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Series 11. Data From the National Health Examination Survey, the National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys, and the Hispanic Health and Nutrition Examination Survey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Series 12. Data From Health Records Survey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Series 13. Data on Health Resources Utilization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Series 14. Data on Health Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Series 15. Data From Special Surveys
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Series 16. Compilations of Advance Data From Vital and Health Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Series 20. Data on Mortality
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Series 21. Data on Natality, Marriage, and Divorce
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Series 22. Data from the National Natality and Mortality Surveys
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Series 23. Data From the National Survey of Family Growth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Series 24. Compilations of Data on Natality, Mortality, Marriage, and Divorce
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other Publications expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Advance Data From Vital and Health Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Healthy People Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Monthly Vital Statistics Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Public Health Service Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vital Statistics of the United States expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Vital Statistics of the United States: 1980-2003
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Vital Statistics of the United States: 1965-1979
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Vital Statistics of the United States: 1939-1964
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Vital Statistics of the United States: 1890-1938
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Technical Appendices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Miscellaneous Publications expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Atlas of United States Mortality
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * National Conference on Health Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * National Committee on Vital and Health Statistics Annual Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Health Survey Research Methods Conference
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Reports from the National Medical Care Utilization and Expenditure Survey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Clearinghouse on Health Indexes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Statistical Notes for Health Planners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Bibliographies Available on the NCHS Website
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Citations for NCHS Publications and Electronic Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Errata List
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Listservs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ordering Printed Publications

Related Sites

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Get E-mail Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Data Visualization Gallery
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FastStats
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * NHIS Early Release Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MMWR QuickStats
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Government Printing Office Bookstore

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF image

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

