https://www.cdc.gov/parasites/scabies/gen_info/faqs.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/parasites/scabies/gen_info/faqs.html    
                Description: Frequently asked questions (FAQs) about scabies.    
                Keywords: scabies,  frequently asked questions,  FAQs, Scabies, Parasitic Diseases    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Parasites

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate

# Scabies Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)

Minus

Related Pages

What is scabies?

Scabies is an infestation of the skin by the human itch mite ( _Sarcoptes
scabiei_ var. _hominis_ ). The microscopic scabies mite burrows into the upper
layer of the skin where it lives and lays its eggs. The most common symptoms
of scabies are intense itching and a pimple-like skin rash. The scabies mite
usually is spread by direct, prolonged, skin-to-skin contact with a person who
has scabies.

Scabies is found worldwide and affects people of all races and social classes.
Scabies can spread rapidly under crowded conditions where close body and skin
contact is frequent. Institutions such as nursing homes, extended-care
facilities, and prisons are often sites of scabies outbreaks. Child-care
facilities also are a common site of scabies infestations.

What is crusted (Norwegian) scabies?

Crusted scabies is a severe form of scabies that can occur in some persons who
are immunocompromised (have a weak immune system), elderly, disabled, or
debilitated. It is also called Norwegian scabies. Persons with crusted scabies
have thick crusts of skin that contain large numbers of scabies mites and
eggs. Persons with crusted scabies are very contagious to other persons and
can spread the infestation easily both by direct skin-to-skin contact and by
contamination of items such as their clothing, bedding, and furniture. Persons
with crusted scabies may not show the usual signs and symptoms of scabies such
as the characteristic rash or itching (pruritus). Persons with crusted scabies
should receive quick and aggressive medical treatment for their infestation to
prevent outbreaks of scabies.

How soon after infestation do symptoms of scabies begin?

If a person has never had scabies before, symptoms may take 4-8 weeks to
develop. It is important to remember that an infested person can spread
scabies during this time, even if he/she does not have symptoms yet.

In a person who has had scabies before, symptoms usually appear much sooner
(1-4 days) after exposure.

What are the signs and symptoms of scabies infestation?

The most common signs and symptoms of scabies are intense itching (pruritus),
especially at night, and a pimple-like (papular) itchy rash. The itching and
rash each may affect much of the body or be limited to common sites such as
the wrist, elbow, armpit, webbing between the fingers, nipple, penis, waist,
belt-line, and buttocks. The rash also can include tiny blisters (vesicles)
and scales. Scratching the rash can cause skin sores; sometimes these sores
become infected by bacteria.

Tiny burrows sometimes are seen on the skin; these are caused by the female
scabies mite tunneling just beneath the surface of the skin. These burrows
appear as tiny raised and crooked (serpiginous) grayish-white or skin-colored
lines on the skin surface. Because mites are often few in number (only 10-15
mites per person), these burrows may be difficult to find. They are found most
often in the webbing between the fingers, in the skin folds on the wrist,
elbow, or knee, and on the penis, breast, or shoulder blades.

The head, face, neck, palms, and soles often are involved in infants and very
young children, but usually not adults and older children.

Persons with crusted scabies may not show the usual signs and symptoms of
scabies such as the characteristic rash or itching (pruritus).

How did I get scabies?

Scabies usually is spread by direct, prolonged, skin-to-skin contact with a
person who has scabies. Contact generally must be prolonged; a quick handshake
or hug usually will not spread scabies. Scabies is spread easily to sexual
partners and household members. Scabies in adults frequently is sexually
acquired. Scabies sometimes is spread indirectly by sharing articles such as
clothing, towels, or bedding used by an infested person; however, such
indirect spread can occur much more easily when the infested person has
crusted scabies.

How is scabies infestation diagnosed?

Diagnosis of a scabies infestation usually is made based on the customary
appearance and distribution of the rash and the presence of burrows. Whenever
possible, the diagnosis of scabies should be confirmed by identifying the
mite, mite eggs, or mite fecal matter (scybala). This can be done by carefully
removing a mite from the end of its burrow using the tip of a needle or by
obtaining skin scraping to examine under a microscope for mites, eggs, or mite
fecal matter. It is important to remember that a person can still be infested
even if mites, eggs, or fecal matter cannot be found; typically fewer than
10-15 mites can be present on the entire body of an infested person who is
otherwise healthy. However, persons with crusted scabies can be infested with
thousands of mites and should be considered highly contagious.

How long can scabies mites live?

On a person, scabies mites can live for as long as 1-2 months. Off a person,
scabies mites usually do not survive more than 48-72 hours. Scabies mites will
die if exposed to a temperature of 50°C (122°F) for 10 minutes.

Can scabies be treated?

Yes. Products used to treat scabies are called _scabicides_ because they kill
scabies mites; some also kill eggs. Scabicides to treat human scabies are
available only with a doctor's prescription; no "over-the-counter" (non-
prescription) products have been tested and approved for humans.

Always follow carefully the instructions provided by the doctor and
pharmacist, as well as those contained in the box or printed on the label.
When treating adults and older children, scabicide cream or lotion is applied
to all areas of the body from the neck down to the feet and toes; when
treating infants and young children, the cream or lotion also is applied to
the head and neck. The medication should be left on the body for the
recommended time before it is washed off. Clean clothes should be worn after
treatment.

In addition to the infested person, treatment also is recommended for
household members and sexual contacts, particularly those who have had
prolonged skin-to-skin contact with the infested person. All persons should be
treated at the same time in order to prevent reinfestation. Retreatment may be
necessary if itching continues more than 2-4 weeks after treatment or if new
burrows or rash continue to appear.

Never use a scabicide intended for veterinary or agricultural use to treat
humans!

Who should be treated for scabies?

Anyone who is diagnosed with scabies, as well as his or her sexual partners
and other contacts who have had prolonged skin-to-skin contact with the
infested person, should be treated. Treatment is recommended for members of
the same household as the person with scabies, particularly those persons who
have had prolonged skin-to-skin contact with the infested person. All persons
should be treated at the same time to prevent reinfestation.

Retreatment may be necessary if itching continues more than 2-4 weeks after
treatment or if new burrows or rash continue to appear.

How soon after treatment will I feel better?

If itching continues more than 2-4 weeks after initial treatment or if new
burrows or rash continue to appear (if initial treatment includes more than
one application or dose, then the 2-4 time period begins after the last
application or dose), retreatment with scabicide may be necessary; seek the
advice of a physician.

Did I get scabies from my pet?

No. Animals do not spread human scabies. Pets can become infested with a
different kind of scabies mite that does not survive or reproduce on humans
but causes "mange" in animals. If an animal with "mange" has close contact
with a person, the animal mite can get under the person's skin and cause
temporary itching and skin irritation. However, the animal mite cannot
reproduce on a person and will die on its own in a couple of days. Although
the person does not need to be treated, the animal should be treated because
its mites can continue to burrow into the person's skin and cause symptoms
until the animal has been treated successfully.

Can scabies be spread by swimming in a public pool?

Scabies is spread by prolonged skin-to-skin contact with a person who has
scabies. Scabies sometimes also can be spread by contact with items such as
clothing, bedding, or towels that have been used by a person with scabies, but
such spread is very uncommon unless the infested person has crusted scabies.

Scabies is very unlikely to be spread by water in a swimming pool. Except for
a person with crusted scabies, only about 10-15 scabies mites are present on
an infested person; it is extremely unlikely that any would emerge from under
wet skin.

Although uncommon, scabies can be spread by sharing a towel or item of
clothing that has been used by a person with scabies.

How can I remove scabies mites from my house or carpet?

Scabies mites do not survive more than 2-3 days away from human skin. Items
such as bedding, clothing, and towels used by a person with scabies can be
decontaminated by machine-washing in hot water and drying using the hot cycle
or by dry-cleaning. Items that cannot be washed or dry-cleaned can be
decontaminated by removing from any body contact for at least 72 hours.

Because persons with crusted scabies are considered very infectious, careful
vacuuming of furniture and carpets in rooms used by these persons is
recommended.

Fumigation of living areas is unnecessary.

How can I remove scabies mites from my clothes?

Scabies mites do not survive more than 2-3 days away from human skin. Items
such as bedding, clothing, and towels used by a person with scabies can be
decontaminated by machine-washing in hot water and drying using the hot cycle
or by dry-cleaning. Items that cannot be washed or dry-cleaned can be
decontaminated by removing from any body contact for at least 72 hours.

My spouse and I were diagnosed with scabies. After several treatments, he/she
still has symptoms while I am cured. Why?

The rash and itching of scabies can persist for several weeks to a month after
treatment, even if the treatment was successful and all the mites and eggs
have been killed. Your health care provider may prescribe additional
medication to relieve itching if it is severe. Symptoms that persist for
longer than 2 weeks after treatment can be due to a number of reasons,
including:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Incorrect diagnosis of scabies. Many drug reactions can mimic the symptoms of scabies and cause a skin rash and itching; the diagnosis of scabies should be confirmed by a skin scraping that includes observing the mite, eggs, or mite feces (scybala) under a microscope. If you are sleeping in the same bed with your spouse and have not become reinfested, and you have not retreated yourself for at least 30 days, then it is unlikely that your spouse has scabies.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reinfestation with scabies from a family member or other infested person if all patients and their contacts are not treated at the same time; infested persons and their contacts must be treated at the same time to prevent reinfestation.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment failure caused by resistance to medication, by faulty application of topical scabicides, or by failure to do a second application when necessary; no new burrows should appear 24-48 hours after effective treatment.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment failure of crusted scabies because of poor penetration of scabicide into thick scaly skin containing large numbers of scabies mites; repeated treatment with a combination of both topical and oral medication may be necessary to treat crusted scabies successfully.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reinfestation from items (fomites) such as clothing, bedding, or towels that were not appropriately washed or dry-cleaned (this is mainly of concern for items used by persons with crusted scabies); potentially contaminated items (fomites) should be machine washed in hot water and dried using the hot temperature cycle, dry-cleaned, or removed from skin contact for at least 72 hours.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * An allergic skin rash (dermatitis); or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Exposure to household mites that cause symptoms to persist because of cross-reactivity between mite antigens.

If itching continues more than 2-4 weeks or if new burrows or rash continue to
appear, seek the advice of a physician; retreatment with the same or a
different scabicide may be necessary.

If I come in contact with a person who has scabies, should I treat myself?

No. If a person thinks he or she might have scabies, he/she should contact a
doctor. The doctor can examine the person, confirm the diagnosis of scabies,
and prescribe an appropriate treatment. Products used to treat scabies in
humans are available only with a doctor's prescription.

Sleeping with or having sex with any scabies infested person presents a high
risk for transmission. The longer a person has skin-to-skin exposure, the
greater is the likelihood for transmission to occur. Although briefly shaking
hands with a person who has non-crusted scabies could be considered as
presenting a relatively low risk, holding the hand of a person with scabies
for 5-10 minutes could be considered to present a relatively high risk of
transmission. However, transmission can occur even after brief skin-to-skin
contact, such as a handshake, with a person who has crusted scabies. In
general, a person who has skin-to-skin contact with a person who has crusted
scabies would be considered a good candidate for treatment.

To determine when prophylactic treatment should be given to reduce the risk of
transmission, early consultation should be sought with a health care provider
who understands:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1. the type of scabies (i.e. non-crusted vs crusted) to which a person has been exposed;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2. the degree and duration of skin exposure that a person has had to the infested patient;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3. whether the exposure occurred before or after the patient was treated for scabies; and,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4. whether the exposed person works in an environment where he/she would be likely to expose other people during the asymptomatic incubation period. For example, a nurse or caretaker who works in a nursing home or hospital often would be treated prophylactically to reduce the risk of further scabies transmission in the facility.

Page last reviewed: December 10, 2019

Content source: Global Health, Division of Parasitic Diseases

home Scabies

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About Scabies expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Scabies FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Workplace FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Epidemiology & Risk Factors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Biology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prevention & Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources for Health Professionals expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Medications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Institutional Settings expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Single Case
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Multiple Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Crusted Scabies Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About Our Division

Social_govd govD  Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Information For

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Institutions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * General Public

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Parasites A-Z Index
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Parasites Glossary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Neglected Tropical Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Laboratory Diagnostic Assistance [DPDx]

Contact Us

For Health Care Providers, Emergency Consultations, and General Public.

**Contact Us**

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

