https://www.cdc.gov/parasites/glossary.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/parasites/glossary.html    
                Description: A parasite is an organism that lives on or in a host and gets its food from or at the expense of its host. Parasites can cause disease in humans.    
                Keywords: Parasites,  parasitic diseases,  organism that lives on or in a host,  cause disease,  developing countries,  Guinea worm,  filariasis,  sleeping sickness,  bed bugs,  lice,  scabies,  Chagas,  leishmaniasis,  river blindness,  trypanosomiasis,  hookworm,  roundworm,  pinworm,  worms, Parasitic Diseases    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Parasites

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate

# Glossary

Minus

Related Pages



### A

**Anemia:** A reduction in the number of circulating red blood cells or in the
quantity of hemoglobin.

**Antibodies:** (Also known as immunoglobulins.) Proteins that are found in
blood or other bodily fluids of vertebrates. Antibodies are produced by the
immune system in response to invasion by foreign substances, such as parasites
and other microorganisms. Antibodies are produced by a kind of white blood
cell called a B cell.

**Antigens:** Substances that can stimulate an immune response. Antigens are
usually proteins or polysaccharides and include the coats, capsules, cell
walls, flagella, fimbrae, and toxins of parasites, bacteria, viruses, and
other microorganisms.

**Avidity:** A term used to describe the combined strength of multiple bond
interactions [as opposed to affinity, which is a term used to describe the
strength of a single bond]. Avidity is a term that can be used to describe
antibody-antigen interactions, where multiple, weak bonds form between antigen
and antibody. Individually, each bond may be weak; however when multiple
individual bonds are present at the same time, the overall effect is strong
binding of antigen to antibody.

Back To Top(https://www.cdc.gov/parasites/glossary.html)

* * *

### C

**Cholecystitis:** Inflammation of the gall bladder.

**Coccidian** : Pertaining to or a member of a group of one-celled (protozoan)
parasites. _Cyclospora_ and _Cryptosporidium_ are examples of coccidian
parasites that infect the epithelial (lining) cells of the intestinal tract.
(Also see "oocyst(https://www.cdc.gov/parasites/glossary.html#oocyst)" and
"sporulation(https://www.cdc.gov/parasites/glossary.html#sporulation).")

Back To Top(https://www.cdc.gov/parasites/glossary.html)

* * *

### D

**Disseminated infection:** An infection where the germ enters the body
through a single entry point and then disperses throughout the body.

**Distilling:** A technique in which water is boiled until it vaporizes and is
then condensed back into water. Dissolved metals and minerals (e.g., arsenic,
lead, etc.) are left behind in the distilling process. Distillation systems
can have a significant energy cost associated with their use.

Back To Top(https://www.cdc.gov/parasites/glossary.html)

* * *

### E

**Ectoparasite:** A classification of animals that includes those with hard,
segmented bodies and jointed appendages, such as insects. Ectoparasites are
usually arthropods which parasitize the skin.

**Elephantiasis:** A syndrome brought on from long-term obstruction of
lymphatic vessels that leads to engorgement and thickened skin. It causes
disfigurement, often of the leg.

**Endemic:** A disease that is native to a particular geographic region.

**Epidemiology:** The study of the distribution and determinants of health-
related states or events in specified populations, and the application of this
study to the control of health problems.

Back To Top(https://www.cdc.gov/parasites/glossary.html)

* * *

### G

**Granulomatous Amebic Encephalitis (GAE):** A serious infection of the brain
and spinal cord that typically occurs in persons with a compromised immune
system.

Back To Top(https://www.cdc.gov/parasites/glossary.html)

* * *

### H

**Helminth:** A large, multicellular organism that is generally visible to the
naked eye in its adult stages. Helminths can be free-living or parasitic. They
include roundworms, tapeworms, and flukes.

Back To Top(https://www.cdc.gov/parasites/glossary.html)

* * *

### I

**Immunoglobulin A (IgA):** A class of immunoglobulin that is the second most
common immunoglobulin in blood. It is the main immunoglobulin found in
secretions, such as tears, saliva, colostrum, mucous membranes of the
intestine, respiratory and reproductive tracts. IgA provides local defense
against microorganisms as they try to infect mucous membranes.

**Immunoglobulin G (IgG)** : A class of immunoglobulin. This is the most
abundant immunoglobulin and is approximately equally distributed in blood and
in tissue liquids. Approximately 75% of serum immunoglobulins in humans is
IgG.

**Immunoglobulin M (IgM):** A class of immunoglobulin and is the third most
common immunoglobulin in serum. IgM is the first class of immunoglobulin that
is made by immune cells when stimulated by antigen.

Back To Top(https://www.cdc.gov/parasites/glossary.html)

* * *

### L

**Lymphedema:** Swelling from fluid build-up caused by improper functioning of
the lymph system.

Back To Top(https://www.cdc.gov/parasites/glossary.html)

* * *

### M

**Malabsorption:** Poor absorption of nutrients by the intestinal tract.

**Morphology:** The study of the form, structure, and configuration of an
organism, including parasites. This includes shape, struture, color, and
pattern as well as the form and structure of internal and external parts.

Back To Top(https://www.cdc.gov/parasites/glossary.html)

* * *

### O

**Oocyst:** A hardy, thick-walled stage of the life cycle of coccidian
parasites. This is the stage that is shed in the feces of people infected with
parasites such as _Cyclospora_ and _Cryptosporidium_. (Also see
"coccidian(https://www.cdc.gov/parasites/glossary.html#coccidian)" and
"sporulation(https://www.cdc.gov/parasites/glossary.html#sporulation).")

Back To Top(https://www.cdc.gov/parasites/glossary.html)

* * *

### P

**Parasite:** Any organism that lives in or on another organism without
benefiting the host organism; commonly refers to pathogens, most commonly in
reference to protozoans and helminths.

**Pneumonitis:** Inflammation of the lungs.

**Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR):** A technique in molecular biology, in
which a single or few copies of a piece of DNA are amplified (multiplied) to
yield many more copies of the part (DNA sequence) of interest. This technique
can make it easier to diagnose certain infections/diseases.

**Protozoa:** Single-celled, microscopic organisms that can perform all
necessary functions of metabolism and reproduction. Some protozoa are free-
living, while others parasitize other organisms for their nutrients and life
cycle.

Back To Top(https://www.cdc.gov/parasites/glossary.html)

* * *

### R

**Recreational Water:** water from swimming pools, hot tubs, Jacuzzis, spas,
fountains, lakes, rivers, springs, ponds, streams, or the ocean.

**Recreational Water Illnesses (RWIs):** illnesses that are spread by
swallowing, breathing, or having contact with contaminated water from swimming
pools, spas, lakes, rivers, or the ocean.

Back To Top(https://www.cdc.gov/parasites/glossary.html)

* * *

### S

**Serology:** The scientific study of blood serum. Antibodies may be formed in
response to an infection with a microorganism and detection of these
antibodies can help make a disease diagnosis when an infection is suspected.
Some serological tests are not limited to blood serum, but can also be
performed using other bodily fluids such as cerebrospinal fluid, saliva, and
semen, which may also contain antibodies after an infection.

**Sinusitis:** Inflammation of the sinuses.

**Sporulation:** The process by which immature (noninfective) coccidian
oocysts develop into the mature, infective form. (Also see
"coccidian(https://www.cdc.gov/parasites/glossary.html#coccidian)" and
"oocyst(https://www.cdc.gov/parasites/glossary.html#oocyst).") The conditions
and setting in which sporulation occurs varies among coccidian parasites. For
example, _Cryptosporidium_ oocysts have already sporulated by the time they
are shed in feces. In contrast, _Cyclospora_ oocysts must mature in the
environment (outside the host), under favorable conditions, to become
infective to someone else.

Back To Top(https://www.cdc.gov/parasites/glossary.html)

* * *

### T

**Telediagnosis:** The transmission of digital images captured from a clinical
specimen and sent via electronic mail to CDC for assistance in identifying
suspected parasitic agents.

Back To Top(https://www.cdc.gov/parasites/glossary.html)

* * *

### Z

**Zoonotic Diseases:** Diseases spread beween animals and people.

Back To Top

Page last reviewed: April 20, 2016

Content source: Global Health, Division of Parasitic Diseases

home Parasites

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About Parasites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diagnosis of Parasitic Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Transmission of Parasitic Diseases expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Animals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Blood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Food
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Insects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Information for Specific Groups expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Laboratory Science
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Public Health Departments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Women
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * What is CDC Doing?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Education and Training expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epi InfoTM App
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC Bottle Bioassay
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * References and Resources expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * How to Find A Physician
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Parasites Glossary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Parasites A-Z Index
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Laboratory Diagnostic Assistance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Parasitic Disease and Malaria Strategic Priorities: 2015â2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About our Division

Social_govd govD  Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Related Links

Neglected Tropical Diseases

Laboratory Diagnostic Assistance (DPDx)

CDC Traveler's Health

Contact Us

For Health Care Providers, Emergency Consultations, and General Public.

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

