https://www.cdc.gov/dotw/lupus/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/dotw/lupus/index.html    
                Description: disease of the week    
                Keywords: disease of the week, Outbreaks, Food Safety    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Disease of the Week

Section Navigation

CDC Home

            * Facebook
            * Twitter
            * LinkedIn
            * Email
            * Syndicate

# Lupus

[loÍopÉs]

Minus

Related Pages

![Doctor consulting with female patient](/dotw/lupus/images/main_928px.jpg)

Lupus is a chronic disease that can damage any organ. Although there are
different types of lupus, the most common and well understood type is systemic
lupus erythematosus (SLE). Most of the information below refers to SLE.

Lupus occurs when the immune system attacks healthy tissue because it cannot
tell the difference between foreign invaders, such as bacteria and viruses,
and the body. Scientists believe lupus is caused by a combination of hormones,
family history or inherited factors, and environmental factors.

People with lupus may have symptoms that include tiredness, joint pain,
sensitivity to sunlight, and a butterfly-shaped rash on the cheeks and nose.
About 9 in 10 (90%) people with the disease are women. Although there is
currently no cure for lupus, many people with the disease can manage their
symptoms with proper treatment.

### Quiz

# Key Facts

            * There are four types of lupus: systemic (the most common type), cutaneous (affecting just the skin), drug-induced (temporary), and neonatal (affecting newborn babies).
            * Some people with lupus don't have visible signs of the disease but may still suffer from unseen symptoms like joint pain.
            * Lupus should always be treated by a doctor. With careful treatment, most people with lupus can live a normal, fulfilling life.
            * People cannot "catch" lupus.  It is not contagious or sexually transmitted.

![Three women](/dotw/lupus/images/symptoms_928px.jpg)

Common Symptoms of Lupus

Lupus can affect many different organs, causing a wide range of signs and
symptoms. These symptoms may come and go, and different symptoms may appear at
different times during the course of the disease.

![Woman holding sore shoulder](/dotw/lupus/images/pain_928px.jpg)

Pain

Many people with lupus have re-occurring muscle or joint pain. Pain medicines
can help, but they also come with risks and side effects. Physical activity
can help ease the pain without the side effects of medication.

![Tired woman](/dotw/lupus/images/fatigue_928px.jpg)

Fatigue

Many people with lupus often feel tired or exhausted. Good sleep patterns, a
healthy diet, regular exercise, and support groups can help people with lupus
feel better and have more energy.

![Woman taking temperature](/dotw/lupus/images/fever_928px.jpg)

Fever

People with lupus may develop fevers when they are having a lupus flare (high
disease activity) or an infection. Fever can be especially dangerous when
taking certain lupus medications, so it is important to contact a doctor for
fevers of 100 degrees Fahrenheit (F) or higher.

![Brush filled with hair](/dotw/lupus/images/Hair_Loss_800.jpg)

Hair Loss

Many people with lupus have hair loss. It can be a side effect of the disease
itself or may be caused by the medications used to treat lupus. Hair is likely
to grow back if there is no scarring, but scarring from lupus on the scalp can
cause hair loss to be permanent.

# Management Tips

Although lupus is not preventable, people with lupus can take steps to manage
their disease and prevent or minimize lupus flares:

            * It's important for people with lupus to take their medications as directed by their health care providers. Taking lupus medications as prescribed, even when someone with lupus doesn't feel sick, will help prevent lupus flares and minimize side effects.
            * Exposure to UV rays from sunlight and other light sources can trigger flares in many people with lupus. Staying out of the sun between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m., applying sunscreen every day, and wearing sun-protective clothing can prevent UV rays from triggering a lupus flare.
            * Emotional stress and exhaustion can trigger flares. It is important for people with lupus to get plenty of sleep and stay rested. Avoiding stress by planning ahead for activities and asking for help when needed can also prevent flares.
            * Although there is no special diet for people with lupus, it's important to eat a variety of nutritious foods, including fresh fruits and vegetables, whole grains, and moderate servings of lean protein such as meat, fish, and beans. People with lupus should avoid eating alfalfa, because it has been associated with lupus flares.

More at CDC.gov

Page last reviewed: March 20, 2020

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Disease of the Week

            * A â Dplus icon
              * Alcohol and Pregnancy
              * ALS
              * Alzheimerâs Disease
              * Arthritis
              * Asthma
              * Blood Clots
              * Botulism
              * Breast Cancer
              * Carbon Monoxide Poisoning (CO)
              * Cerebral Palsy
              * Cervical Cancer
              * Chickenpox (Varicella)
              * Chikungunya
              * Chronic Kidney Disease
              * Colorectal Cancer
              * Common Cold
              * Concussions
              * Congenital CMV
              * COPD
              * Dengue
              * Diabetes
              * Disease Detectives
            * E â Jplus icon
              * Ebola
              * Enteroviruses
              * Epilepsy
              * Flu (Influenza)
              * Foodborne Diseases
              * Fragile X
              * Gonorrhea
              * Hand, Foot & Mouth Disease
              * Hantavirus
              * Heart Disease and Men
              * Hemophilia
              * Hepatitis A
              * Hepatitis C
              * Hepatitis E
              * HIV/AIDS
              * Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD)
            * K â Qplus icon
              * Listeriosis
              * Liver Cancer
              * Lung Cancer
              * Lupus
              * Lyme Disease
              * Lymphatic Filariasis
              * Measles
              * Norovirus
              * Pink Eye
              * Pneumonia
              * Polio
            * R â Zplus icon
              * Rabies
              * Recreational Water Illnesses
              * Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV)
              * Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever
              * Rotavirus
              * SARS (10 Years After)
              * Scarlet Fever
              * Shingles
              * Sickle Cell Disease
              * Skin Cancer
              * Strep Throat
              * Stroke
              * Tetanus
              * West Nile Virus
              * Whooping Cough (Pertussis)
              * Zika

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

            * About CDC
            * Jobs
            * Funding
            * Policies
            * File Viewers & Players

            * Privacy
            * FOIA
            * No Fear Act
            * OIG
            * Nondiscrimination
            * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

            * Facebook
            * Twitter
            * Youtube
            * Instagram
  

            * Syndicate
            * CDC TV
            * RSS
            * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

            * Facebook
            * Twitter
            * LinkedIn
            * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

            * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
            * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
            * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
            * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

