https://www.cdc.gov/zika/public-health-partners/vector-control-us.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/zika/public-health-partners/vector-control-us.html    
                Description: <p>Information on Zika virus. Provided by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.</p>    
                Keywords: Zika virus, Zika, Tropical Africa, mosquitoes, avoid mosquito bites, Aedes, viral disease, Flaviviridae family    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Zika Virus

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Syndicate

# Interim CDC Recommendations for Zika Vector Control in the Continental
United States

Minus

Related Pages

**_Accompanying guidance to CDC Guidelines for Development of State and Local
Risk-based Zika Action Plans *Does not include guidance specific to US
territories_**

## Definitions

**Travel-associated Zika case:** Zika virus infection in a person who has
traveled from an area with Zika virus transmission.

**Suspected Zika case of local mosquito-borne transmission:** Symptoms or
preliminary test results compatible with Zika virus infection in a person who
does not have risk factors for Zika virus acquisition through travel, sexual
contact, or other known exposure to body fluids and for whom Zika virus test
results are pending.

OR

Initial blood donation screening positive for Zika virus and confirmatory test
pending, from a donor who does not have risk factors for Zika virus
acquisition through travel, sexual contact, or other known exposure to body
fluids.

**Confirmed Zika local mosquito-borne transmission:** Positive test for Zika
virus infection per CDC laboratory guidance in a person who does not have risk
factors for Zika virus acquisition through travel, sexual contact, or other
known exposure to body fluids.

OR

Positive Zika virus nucleic acid test (NAT) on screening AND confirmation
through an approved confirmatory test algorithm in donated blood from a donor
who does not have risk factors for Zika acquisition through travel, sexual
contact, or other body fluid exposure.

**Confirmed, multiperson, local mosquito-borne Zika transmission:** Three or
more Zika cases of confirmed local transmission in non-household members with
onsets greater than 2 weeks apart (the approximate lifespan of an infected
mosquito) and less than 45 days in an area of approximately 1-mile in
diameter. Identification of overlapping movement within a 1-mile diameter of
multiple people with locally acquired Zika virus infection suggests a common
location (e.g., residential neighborhood, workplace, or other location) for
infected mosquito exposure, because the lifetime flight range of the _Aedes
aegypti_ mosquito vector is approximately 150 meters (approximately 500 ft).

## Preparation

Early season mosquito control efforts can decrease the risk of eventual Zika
transmission and effective control of Zika virus vectors will depend on prompt
and aggressive intervention when human cases are first identified. All at-risk
communities should prepare for Zika virus activity, and should prepare and
evaluate control plans for mosquito populations in their state as part of Zika
Action Plan preparedness efforts.  A comprehensive review of health code,
enforcement practices, and property access will aid the implementation of a
vector control plan.

Many states have existing vector control programs. With the exception of
states who have responded to past outbreaks of dengue and chikungunya, most
state plans focus on control of mosquitoes for the prevention of West Nile
virus (WNV). The biology and behavior of _Ae. aegypti_ and _Aedes albopictus_
are different from the mosquitoes that transmit WNV. Therefore, the tools used
for surveillance of these species as well as strategies for control will be
different from WNV mosquitoes.

**Before mosquito season**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * State, tribes, and local governments should consider using an Integrated Mosquito Management (IMM) strategy as they develop their mosquito control plans (See Appendix).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Public health officials and vector control officials should develop a communications network to ensure timely exchange of information, and collaboratively share information to guide optimum vector control efforts. This network should be part of the state's Incident Management structure, and should report efforts and plans to the state Incident Manager (IM).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * To prepare for the possible introduction of Zika virus, states, tribes, and local governments should review historical data and maps regarding the presence of _Ae.  aegypti_ and _Ae. albopictus_. If maps are outdated, plan new surveys and assessments to be conducted during mosquito season.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Responding officials should review existing staffing capacity, resource allocation, and technical expertise at the local level for vector control and consider use of intergovernmental agreements for vector control to help adjacent counties outside their jurisdiction, as well as pre-positioning contracts with vendors to supply additional vector control capacity.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Responding officials should link vector control efforts with communication efforts. This includes ensuring public education campaigns include information not just on personal protection measures, but also how citizens may reduce or eliminate sites where _Ae.  aegypti_ and _Ae. albopictus_ lay eggs, motivate the community to remove and dispose of any water holding containers, and educate the community about what IMM is as practiced by a mosquito control program.

**During Mosquito Season**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Using the plan previously developed, survey and map presence of _Ae.  aegypti_ and _Ae. albopictus_ within the state and jurisdiction.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Actively engage community to encourage removal of larval habitat and sites where _Ae.  aegypti_ and _Ae. albopictus_ lay eggs, including community cleanup campaigns (tire removal, trash pickup, removal and cleaning of small and large containers). Leverage partnerships with local governments, non-profits, and private sector for support.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Use larvicides in containers and bodies of water that cannot be removed or dumped.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Use adulticides when adult mosquitoes are abundant and populations need to be suppressed.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Conduct rapid insecticide resistance testing for local mosquito populations to identify the insecticides most likely to be effective in the event of Zika virus disease cases.

## Implementing Control Efforts

To prevent local mosquito-borne transmission, mosquito control should be
implemented for all suspected and confirmed travel-associated and locally
acquired Zika virus disease cases. The scope of mosquito control efforts may
intensify as more cases are identified. Vector control efforts should align
with state, tribal, and local government decisions regarding boundaries for
declaring an area as a site of "active Zika virus transmission". This may
model county lines or be a zip code designation. In the case of confirmed,
multiperson local mosquito-borne transmission, officials should plan to
intensify and expand vector control efforts within the areas of active
transmission.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Implement targeted control efforts around the case-patient's home or building, including intensified source reduction, along with larval and adult mosquito control in a 150-yard radius (or other boundary as deemed appropriate) around the home or building.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Consider targeted indoor residual spraying in areas where air conditioning and screens are not widely available.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Targeted control activities involving home visits should be closely coordinated with concurrent educational efforts and messaging.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * In addition to targeting case-patient homes and the surrounding vicinity, area-wide treatments with larvicides and adulticides using application methods appropriate for the scale of the treatment area should be considered. Control plans should be tailored to the local needs and might require truck or aerial spraying (aerial for areas >2000 acres) or a combination of both. In the case of confirmed, multiperson local mosquito-borne transmission that extends across multiple counties or a state, expand vector control efforts to achieve regional or state coverage.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Monitor for effectiveness of treatments through trapping and retreat if mosquito numbers begin to increase again.

## Appendix

Effective mosquito management programs based on IMM principles may help
prevent the introduction of Zika virus to an area. IMM principles include
approaching mosquito control through careful planning, using a variety of
interventions targeting both larval and adult mosquito control, and including
both chemical and non-chemical methods. When properly planned and executed,
IMM ensures a more effective level of control than can be achieved by one
single approach. States, tribes, and local governments should develop plans
tailored to their individual needs and consider basing those plans on the
principles of IMM.

IMM is ideally anchored by a mosquito monitoring program providing data that
describe local conditions and habitats that produce _Aedes_ mosquitoes, as
well as the abundance of those mosquitoes over the course of a season. These
data can help inform decisions about implementing mosquito control activities
appropriate to the situation. The implementation of an effective IMM program
for _Aedes_ mosquitoes requires trained staff with a knowledge of the mosquito
life cycle and expertise in monitoring methods. Details for how to conduct
assessment and control activities for both larval and adult _Aedes_ mosquitoes
may be found on CDC's chikungunya website.

**Immature Mosquito Monitoring**

Larval monitoring can help state, tribal, and local governments monitor
_Aedes_ mosquito activity and make early decisions for control, even in
advance of suspected Zika cases in humans. This involves sampling a wide range
of aquatic habitats, and requires trained inspectors to identify larval
production sites, collect larval specimens on a regular basis from known
larval habitats, and to regularly look for new sources. This information can
be used to determine where and when source reduction or larval control efforts
should be implemented. Common methods for collecting information on the number
and locations of larval _Ae. aegypti_ and _Ae. albopictus_ are ovitraps and
larval/pupal surveys.

**Adult Mosquito Monitoring**

Adult mosquito monitoring is used to determine the abundance of adult vector
mosquitoes and identify areas where control measures are needed. It is also
useful to assess the effectiveness of intervention methods. Currently, testing
mosquitoes for Zika virus is not recommended, as this virus does not have a
known animal reservoir outside of humans in the United States and there is no
expected advantage to be obtained over good human surveillance programs.

Various methods are available for monitoring adult mosquitoes. Traps targeting
adult _Culex_ species are not effective at capturing _Ae. aegypti_ and _Ae.
albopictus_. The most frequently used trap for adult _Aedes_ mosquito
surveillance is the BG Sentinel trap, but other trap types are available.
Adult mosquito surveillance should consist of a series of collecting sites at
which mosquitoes are sampled on a regular schedule. Fixed trap sites allow
monitoring of trends in mosquito abundance over time and are essential for
obtaining information to guide control efforts. Additional trap sites can be
utilized on an ad hoc basis to provide additional information about mosquito
activity and effectiveness of control efforts.

**Mosquito Control Activities**

Mosquito control should ideally be conducted during mosquito season, even
before cases of Zika are recognized, and be based on the results of larval and
adult mosquito monitoring programs that have identified areas in need of
control. Additionally, at the point of the first human case of Zika, more
routine mosquito control efforts must be quickly and aggressively amplified to
prevent risk levels from increasing to the point of a widespread human disease
outbreak.

**Larval Mosquito Control**

The objective of the larval mosquito control is to manage mosquito populations
before they emerge as adults. This can be an efficient method of managing
mosquito populations if the mosquito breeding sites are accessible. However,
larval control alone may not attain the levels of mosquito population
reduction needed to maintain Zika risk at low levels, and must be accompanied
by measures to control the adult mosquito populations as well. In outbreak
situations, larval control complements adult mosquito control measures by
preventing new vector mosquitoes from being produced. However, larval control
alone is unlikely to be able to stop Zika outbreaks once virus amplification
has reached levels causing human infections.

Numerous methods are available for controlling larval mosquitoes.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * **Source Reduction:** Source reduction is the elimination or removal of habitats that produce mosquitoes. This can range from draining and scrubbing water holding containers on a weekly basis to properly disposing of discarded tires, rain barrels, and trash containers that may harbor rain water. This can be difficult to accomplish with the Zika virus vector _Ae. aegypti,_ which readily uses very small water containers. Active community engagement, as well as ensuring community access to trash services for removal of debris, are critical to the success of a source reduction campaign. Source reduction may be improved through home visits to examine possible mosquito breeding sites and educating homeowners.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * **Larvicide Application:** For situations not conducive to source reduction, pesticides registered by Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for larval mosquito control may be applied when larvae are detected or added to containers that could potentially serve as breeding sites. Several larval mosquito control pesticides are available. (See Table 1) Methods for delivering larvicides include the use of hand-held application devices, from truck-mounted sprayers, from aircraft, or from a combination of methods. More details are provided below.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * **Combined Approach** : A combination approach utilizing source reduction and larviciding that istailored to local contexts and the provision of adequate field staff with proper training is required to properly identify larval production sites and implement the appropriate management tools for that site.

**Adult Mosquito Control**

Source reduction and larvicide treatments alone are unlikely to be adequate to
maintain adult mosquito populations at levels sufficiently low enough to limit
virus amplification. The objective of the adult mosquito control component of
an IMM program is to complement the larval management program by reducing the
abundance of adult, actively biting mosquitoes in an area, thereby reducing
the number of eggs laid in breeding sites. In addition, during an outbreak,
adult mosquito control is crucial to immediately reduce the abundance of
biting, infected adult mosquitoes. A list of EPA-registered chemicals
available for controlling adult mosquitoes is in Table 2. Numerous methods are
available for controlling adult _Aedes_ mosquitoes.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * **Targeted Outdoor Residual Spraying** : In situations where long-lasting control is desired (at the case-patient household or building level, for example) an approach aimed at outdoor spraying of surfaces likely to serve as adult mosquito resting sites may be achieved with hand-held application devices (Trout et al. 2010) at the target and in a 150-yard radius around the target. Ideally, pesticide decisions should be preceded by an assessment of possible resistance to the chemicals. Targeted adulticide treatments should be accompanied by larval reduction methods as described above. In these situations (i.e., providing a barrier around a pregnant woman's or case-patient's home), to arrest viral spread, this method requires aggressive attention and rapid action. (Vasquez-Prokopec 2010)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * **Indoor Residual Spraying** : Indoor residual spraying should be considered for homes that do not have adequate screening or air conditioning. Two chemicals with EPA registration allowing indoor use for mosquitoes are deltamethrin and bifenthrin. Spraying should target sites within the home where mosquitoes rest. They include the back of closets, under furniture and other dark undisturbed sites behind furniture, and in corners. (Vazques-Prokopec 2010)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * **Widespread Outdoor Application** : In situations where adult _Aedes_ mosquito populations are very high or more widespread local transmission of Zika is recognized, in addition to the household or building targeted approach, more widespread adulticide applications using pesticides registered by EPA can be used. Pesticides for adult mosquito control can be applied to wider areas using hand-held application devices, from truck-mounted sprayers, from aircraft, or from a combination of methods. This type of spraying is known as space spraying, as opposed to residual spraying described above, and its effect is transient when used without concurrent larval control (i.e., the insecticide must come into contact with a mosquito at the time of being sprayed in order to have an impact). 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Hand-held devices are useful to manage relatively small areas, but are limited in their capacity to treat large areas quickly during an outbreak.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Truck-based applications may reach larger areas, but may have gaps in coverage due to limitations of the road infrastructure.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Aerial application of mosquito control adulticides is required when large areas must be treated quickly.  Applications using trucks and aircraft should be timed around dusk and/or dawn.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Both truck and aerially-applied pesticides for adult mosquito control are applied using ultra-low-volume (ULV) technology in which a very small volume of pesticide is applied per acre in an aerosol of minute droplets designed to contain sufficient pesticide to kill mosquitoes that are contacted by the droplets. Information describing ULV spray technology and the factors affecting effectiveness of ground and aerially-applied ULV pesticides is reviewed in Mount et al. 1996, Mount 1998, and Bonds 2012.

**Risk and Safety of Vector Control Pesticides and Practices**

Insecticides to control larval and adult mosquitoes are registered
specifically for that use by the US EPA. Instructions provided on the product
labels prescribe the required application and use parameters and must be
strictly followed. Pesticide use should be restricted to trained and licensed
technicians, according to state, tribal, or local legal requirements. Research
has demonstrated that ULV application of mosquito control adulticides did not
produce detectable exposure or increases in asthma events in people living in
treated areas (Karpati et al. 2004, Currier et al. 2005, Duprey et al. 2008).

**Legal Action to Achieve Access or Control**

Individually-owned private properties may be major sources of mosquito
production. Examples include accumulations of discarded tires or other trash,
neglected water features that become stagnant and produce mosquitoes. Local
public health statutes or public nuisance regulations may be employed to gain
access for surveillance and control, or to require the property owner to
mitigate the problem. Proactive communication with residents and public
education programs may alleviate the need to use legal actions. However, legal
efforts may be required to eliminate persistent mosquito production sites.

**Insecticide Resistance Management**

To delay or prevent the development of insecticide resistance in vector
populations, IMM programs should include a resistance management component
(Florida Coordinating Council on Mosquito Control 1998). Ideally, this should
include annual monitoring of the status of resistance in the target
populations or resistance assessments in local areas ahead of decisions for
chemical applications.

CDC has developed an assay to determine if a particular active ingredient is
able to kill mosquito vectors. The technique, referred to as the CDC bottle
bioassay, is simple, rapid, and economical assay compared with alternative
methods. The results can help guide the choice of insecticide used for
spraying.

Programs in the **continental United States and its territories** can order
free Insecticide Resistance Kits by sending an email to
USBottleAssayKit@cdc.gov and requesting an order form. Kits include bottles,
insecticide, and manual.

**Table 1 Insecticides targeting larval mosquitoes**

Table 1 Insecticides targeting larval mosquitoes **Active Ingredient** |
**Chemical Type**  
---|---  
_Bacillus thruengensis isralensis_ | Microbial  
_Bacillus sphaericus_ | Microbial  
Spinosyn | Microbial  
Oils | Surface film  
Novaluron | Insect growth regulator  
Methoprene | Insect growth regulator  
Temephos | Organophosphate  
  
**Table 2 Insecticides targeting adult mosquitoes**

Table 2 Insecticides targeting adult mosquitoes Active Ingredient | Use |
Chemical Type  
---|---|---  
Deltamethrin | Space spray/residual spray | Pyrethroid  
Etofenprox | Space spray | Pyrethroid  
Permethrin | Space spray | Pyrethroid  
d-Phenothrin (Sumethrin) | Space spray | Pyrethroid  
Pyrethrins/Pyrethrum | Space spray | Pyrethroid  
Chlorpyrifos | Space spray | Organophosphate  
Malathion | Space spray | Organophosphate  
Naled | Space spray | Organophosphate  
Alpha-cypermethrin | Residual spray | Pyrethroid  
Bifenthrin | Residual spray | Pyrethroid  
Lambda-cyhalothrin | Residual spray | Pyrethroid  
Tau-fluvalinate | Residual spray | Pyrethroid  
Imidacloprid/beta-cyfluthrin | Residual spray | Neonicotinoid/Pyrethroid mix  
  
#### References

Bonds JA. 2012. Ultra-low-volume space sprays in mosquito control: a critical
review. _Med Vet Entomol_. 26(2):121-30.

Currier M, McNeill, M, Campbell D, Newton N, Marr JS Perry E, Berg SW, Barr
DB, Luber GE, Kieszak MA, Rogers HS, Backer LC Belson MG Bubin C Azziz-
Baumgartner E, Duprey ZH. 2005. Human exposure to mosquito-control pesticides-
Mississippi, North Carolina, and Virginia, 2002 and 2003. _MMWR_. 54:529-532.

Duprey Z, Rivers S, Luber G, Becker A, Blackmore C, Barr D, Weerasekera G,
Kieszak S, Flanders WD, Rubin C. 2008. Community aerial mosquito control and
naled exposure. _J Am Mosq Control Assoc_. 24:42-46. Doi:10.2987/5559.1

Florida Coordinating Committee Mosquito Control. 1998. Florida mosquito
control: the state mission as defined by mosquito controllers, regulators, and
environmental managers Cdc-pdf[PDF - 259 pages]External. Gainesville, FL:
University of Florida. Accessed 5/7/2013

Karpati AM, Perrin MC, Matte T, Leighton J, Schwartz J, Barr RG. 2004.
Pesticide spraying for West Nile virus control and emergency department asthma
visits in New York City, 2000. _Environ Health Perspect_. 112(11):1183-7.

Mount GA. 1998. A critical review of ultralow-volume aerosols of insecticide
applied with vehicle-mounted generators for adult mosquito control. _J Am Mosq
Control Assoc_. 14(3):305-34.

Mount GA, Biery TL, Haile DG. 1996. A review of ultralow-volume aerial sprays
of insecticide for mosquito control. _J Am Mosq Control Assoc_. 12(4):601-18.

Trout RT, Brown GC, Potter MR, Hubbard JL. 2007. Efficacy of two Pyrethroid
insecticides applied as barrier treatments for managing mosquito (Dipters:
Culicidae) populaitons in suburban residential properties.  _J. Med. Entomo_.
44:470-477

Vazques-Prokopec GM, Kitron U, Montgomery B, Horne P, Ritchie SA. 2010.
Quantifying the spatial dimension of dengue virus epidemic spread within a
tropical urban environment. _PLoS Negl. Trop. Dis_. 4: ** ** e920.
doi:10.1371/journal.pntd.0000920

Page last reviewed: January 18, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Vector-
Borne Diseases (DVBD)

home Zika Virus Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About Zikaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * What You Need to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Questions About Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevention & Transmissionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Protect Yourself & Othersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Build a Zika Prevention Kit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Prevent Mosquito Bitesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Controlling Mosquitoes at Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sexual Transmission & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Plan for Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika & Blood Transfusion
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika & Animals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Men & Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Symptoms, Testing, & Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Testing for Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zika in the USplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Blood & Tissue Collection Community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Statistics & Mapsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2020 Case Counts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2019 Case Counts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2018 Case Counts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2017 Case Counts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2016 Case Counts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2015 Case Counts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mosquito Controlplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Integrated Mosquito Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika Vector Control in the Continental US
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Potential Range in US
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * For Professionalsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Surveillance & Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Information on Aerial Spraying
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Insecticide Resistanceplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Testing in Puerto Rico
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Mosquitoes & Hurricanes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Health Effects & Risksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Microcephaly & Other Birth Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Guillain-BarrÃ© Syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Information for Specific Groupsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Blood & Tissue Collection Centers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * For Healthcare Providersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Clinical Evaluation & Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sexual Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Testing for Zikaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Testing Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Diagnostic Tests
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Test Specimens â At Time of Birth 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Infection Controlplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Healthcare Exposure to Zika & Infection Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Interim Guidance for Managing Occupational Exposures to Zika Virus for Healthcare Personnel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * For Laboratoriesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Lab Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Testing for Zika Virus Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Test Specimens â Body Fluids
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Test Specimens â Tissues
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Resources & Publicationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epidemiologic Investigation Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Communication Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika Communication Toolkits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Video Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Print Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika Widgets

![Zika and Pregnancy button.  ](/zika/images/pregnancy-button.jpg)

![CDC MMWR Zika button](/zika/images/Zika_MMWR_button.jpg)

![Zika microsite button](/zika/images/highlights-zikamicrosite-purple.jpg)

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

