https://www.cdc.gov/zika/hc-providers/infection-control/managing-occupational-exposures.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/zika/hc-providers/infection-control/managing-occupational-exposures.html    
                Description: <p>Information on Zika virus. Provided by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.</p>    
                Keywords: Zika virus, Zika, Tropical Africa, mosquitoes, avoid mosquito bites, Aedes, viral disease, Flaviviridae family    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Zika Virus

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Syndicate

![For Healthcare Providers Banner](/zika/images/hc-providers/hcp-
banner-476x50.png)

# Interim Guidance for Managing Occupational Exposures to Zika Virus for
Healthcare Personnel

Minus

Related Pages

## Introduction

Zika virus is primarily spread by the bite of an infected _Aedes_ species
mosquito. Sexual and maternal-fetal transmission have also been well
described. Transmission via transfusion of blood products has been reported in
Brazil, but to date, transmission of Zika virus via blood transfusion has not
been reported in the United States. There is currently no clinical evidence
that Zika virus is transmitted through the air.

In June 2016, there was a report of possible Zika virus transmission from an
infected person to a family member in the United States; the exact mechanism
of transmission and whether transmission occurred in the home or in a
healthcare setting are unclear. There have been no reports of transmission of
Zika virus from infected patients to healthcare personnel (HCP) or to other
patients in healthcare settings. However, transmission related to occupational
exposure to Zika virus has occurred in laboratory workers, including one in
2016 in which a research laboratorian became infected via a needlestick
injury.

To prevent occupationally-acquired infections and reduce the possibility of
spreading infectious diseases, including Zika virus, in healthcare settings,
HCP should adhere to Standard Precautions for all patient care activities
(2007 Guideline for Isolation Precautions: Preventing Transmission of
Infectious Agents in Healthcare Settings). Employers must comply with the
Occupational Safety and Health Administration's Bloodborne Pathogens standard
(29 CFR 1910.1030), or similar OSHA State Plan standards, whenever employees
have occupational exposure to blood, body fluids, or other potentially
infectious materials. If HCP have an occupational exposure ( _see 3.
Definition of Occupational Exposure_ ) while caring for a patient with known
or suspected Zika virus infection, they should follow facility/employer
procedures including an occupational health assessment for potential exposure
to infectious diseases (including bloodborne pathogens, such as HIV, hepatitis
B virus, and hepatitis C virus), in addition to evaluation for potential Zika
virus exposure.

This document provides guidance for facilities to determine when HCP should be
tested for Zika virus infection following an occupational exposure and
recommendations for post-exposure management. This document does not address
all occupational healthcare that might be required or the necessary evaluation
or follow-up for occupational exposures to other infectious diseases (e.g.,
bloodborne pathogens). This guidance is not intended for laboratory
researchers or laboratory research personnel. The recommendations in this
document will be updated as new information becomes available.

## Definition of Healthcare Personnel

HCP are all paid and unpaid people working in healthcare settings who have the
potential for exposure to infectious materials, including blood and body
fluids, contaminated medical supplies and equipment, or contaminated
environmental surfaces. HCP include, but are not limited to, emergency medical
services personnel, dentists and dental technicians, clinical laboratory staff
with patient contact, autopsy personnel, environmental services staff, nurses,
nursing assistants, physicians, physician assistants, technicians,
phlebotomists, therapists, pharmacists, students and trainees, contractual
staff not employed by the healthcare facility, and people not directly
involved in patient care but potentially exposed to blood and body fluids
(e.g., clerical, dietary, security, and maintenance personnel who work in a
clinical setting or potentially handle clinical materials).

## Definition of Occupational Exposure

An occupational exposure that might place HCP at risk for Zika virus infection
is defined as a percutaneous injury (e.g., a needlestick or cut with a sharp
object) or direct contact of mucous membrane or non-intact skin (e.g., skin
that is abraded, cut, or has active dermatitis) with blood, tissue, or other
body fluids that are potentially infectious. Knowledge about the presence of
Zika virus and viral ribonucleic acid (RNA) in blood or body fluids continues
to grow; as of this publication, Zika virus has been detected by viral culture
in several different body fluids including blood,1-3 urine,4-6 amniotic
fluid,7 a conjunctival swab,8 breast milk,9 semen,10-14 vaginal secretions,15
and saliva.6,16 Zika virus RNA, which might not represent infectious virus,
has also been detected by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-
PCR) in cerebrospinal fluid,17-20 aqueous humor,21 cervical mucous,22 and
nasopharyngeal4,23 and endocervical swabs.18,22

## Evaluating and Managing HCP with Possible Occupational Exposure to Zika
Virus

### Initial management

If a possible occupational exposure occurs, exposed HCP should follow the
established work-site exposure procedures, including:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Immediately washing wounds and skin sites that have been exposed to blood or body fluids with soap and water, and immediately flushing mucous membranes with copious clean water.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Immediately reporting the exposure to the appropriate department and individual(s) (e.g., Occupational Health Clinic, supervisor).

### Assessment of the exposure incident and determination of the need for Zika
virus testing

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1. Determine the nature of the exposure incident, including the type of body fluid(s) to which the HCP was exposed, route of exposure, and what body part of the HCP was exposed.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2. If it is determined that an occupational exposure has occurred ( _see 3. Definition of Occupational Exposure_ ), assess whether the source patient has had a possible Zika virus exposure. Possible Zika virus exposure is defined as travel to or residence in an area with risk of Zika virus transmission or sex without a condom with a partner who traveled to or lived in an area with risk of Zika virus infection. The timing of potential infectivity of the sexual partner of the source patient is defined in other CDC guidance.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3. Determine if the HCP's occupational exposure occurred within the risk period for transmission. Based on limited available data, an 8 week interval between Zika virus exposure in the source patient (via travel or sexual risk factors) and the HCP's occupational exposure to body fluids (with the exception of semen)§ provides a reasonable estimate of the likely occupational transmission risk period.†
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4. If an occupational exposure occurred and the source patient is potentially infectious as defined above, then the HCP should be considered to have a possible occupational exposure to Zika virus, and Zika virus testing of the exposed HCP should be performed if the exposed HCP is pregnant.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5. Zika virus testing of other, non-pregnant exposed HCP can be considered on an individual basis. The exposed HCP should be counseled about symptoms of Zika virus infection and advised to seek evaluation and testing if symptoms develop within 2 weeks of the exposure. Testing of the exposed HCP is described in more detail below ( _see 4E. Laboratory Testing of Potentially Exposed HCP_ ).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6. When a possible occupational exposure to Zika virus has occurred, CDC recommends testing the source patient, when possible, in accordance with CDC recommended testing algorithms.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7. If a source patient does not have risk factors for Zika virus infection, Zika virus testing of the source patient and exposed HCP is not recommended.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8. Even if a source patient's serum has detectable Zika-specific IgM antibodies and is negative by nucleic acid testing (suggesting lack of infectious virus), other body fluids could remain infectious (e.g. semen§), as the persistence of virus varies depending on the type of body fluid. This might be important for occupational exposures that involve body fluids other than blood. See guidance about interpretation of testing for Zika virus infection.

### Clinical management of HCP with possible occupational exposure(s) to Zika
virus

At present, there is no post-exposure prophylaxis or immunization for Zika
virus. If the exposed HCP develops signs or symptoms consistent with Zika
virus infection within 2 weeks of exposure, he or she should be evaluated by a
healthcare provider. Zika virus infection should be considered as part of the
differential diagnosis and additional Zika virus testing should be considered
if indicated.

### Counseling of HCP with possible occupational exposure(s) to Zika virus

All exposed HCP should receive confidential counseling to address their health
and safety concerns and their risk of transmission to others. All HCP with a
possible occupational exposure to Zika virus should be advised to take the
following actions/precautions:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevent mosquito bites for three weeks post-exposure by wearing long-sleeved shirts and long pants and using EPA-registered insect repellents if in an area with a competent mosquito vector to reduce the risk of further mosquito-borne transmission.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Use condoms or abstain from sex with a pregnant partner for the entire pregnancy.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Use a condom during sex or abstain from sex with a partner for at least 8 weeks after exposure for women and for at least 6 months after exposure for men before trying to conceive. Regardless of pregnancy intent, couples who want to minimize their risk for sexual transmission of Zika virus should use a condom or abstain from sex for the same time periods.

If the source patient ( _see 4.B.v._ ) or HCP ( _see 4.E. Laboratory Testing
of Potentially Exposed HCP_ ) tests negative for Zika virus infection, the
exposed HCP does not need to continue with the precautions above.

### Laboratory testing of potentially exposed HCP

If laboratory testing for Zika virus infection of the exposed HCP is
recommended or being considered, a serum sample should be obtained immediately
after the exposure incident (baseline).

For asymptomatic HCP for whom testing is indicated, an additional serum sample
should be obtained between 2 - 12 weeks post exposure. The baseline and
follow-up serum samples should be tested for Zika virus-specific IgM
antibodies and any positive result confirmed by plaque reduction
neutralization test. However, results of baseline testing for Zika virus among
HCP should be interpreted in the context of underlying risk factors such as
geographic location, local transmission, and travel history.

If an exposed HCP develops signs and symptoms consistent with Zika virus
disease ≤ 2 weeks from exposure, both a urine and serum sample should be
collected from the HCP and tested in accordance with CDC recommended testing
algorithms. If all testing is negative, consider obtaining an additional serum
sample at >2 weeks post-exposure to further evaluate for infection.

If Zika virus testing of the HCP is negative at baseline and remains negative
at >2 weeks post-exposure, no further Zika virus testing is recommended.
Further, if the source patient has been tested for Zika virus infection and
found to be negative, follow-up testing of the exposed HCP (i.e., at > 2
weeks) should generally not be required.

Any positive test results should also be interpreted according to the most
recent guidance.

## Managing HCP Who Develop Zika Virus Infection Following an Occupational
Exposure

At present, there is no specific treatment for Zika virus infection. Infected
HCP should receive or be referred for appropriate counseling and care. See
interim guidance on caring for pregnant women with possible Zika virus
exposure.

Infected HCP should take steps to prevent mosquito bites for three weeks post-
exposure to avoid risk of further mosquito-borne transmission. In addition,
infected HCP should be advised to take the following actions/precautions:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Use a condom every time during sex or abstain from sex with a pregnant partner for the entire pregnancy.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Use a condom every time during sex or abstain from sex with any partner for at least 2 months after exposure if the infected HCP is a woman, and for at least 3 months if the infected HCP is male, before trying to conceive. Regardless of pregnancy status or intent, couples who want to minimize their risk for sexual transmission of Zika virus should use a condom or abstain from sex for the same time periods. See more information about managing Zika virus infection and necessary precautions to prevent transmission.

## Work Restrictions

In general, HCP who have been exposed to or have Zika virus infection
(symptomatic or asymptomatic) do not require work restrictions but should
continue to adhere to Standard Precautions for all patient care activities.
Exceptions (e.g., reassignment, furlough) should be considered for HCP with
symptoms that might be attributed to another or additional contagious
etiologic pathogen (e.g., symptomatic conjunctivitis) that normally result in
work restrictions.

MORE ZIKA TOPICS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Clinical Evaluation and Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pregnant Women
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Infants and Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Reproductive-Age Women
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sexual Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Testing for Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Infection Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Training

## Footnotes

§ Zika viral RNA has been detected for much longer periods in semen than in
other body fluids; therefore in the event of an occupational exposure to
semen, the period of potential occupational risk should be extended (e.g., 6
months). Extended risk periods could also be considered on a case by case
basis for some source patients (e.g., immunocompromised).  
† The exact time interval between the source patient's Zika virus exposure
(via travel or sexual contact) and the occupational exposure that could result
in Zika virus transmission to an exposed HCP is unknown. The estimate of this
interval accounts for the incubation period and the possible duration of
infectious virus in body fluids. Most symptomatic Zika virus disease patients
develop symptoms within 2 weeks of their exposure. Zika viral RNA can be
detected in most body fluids of the majority of patients for no more than 2 to
4 weeks. In some people, it can be detected for longer, but it is unknown
whether detection of Zika viral RNA indicates presence of infectious virus and
the potential for transmission. Zika virus is generally recovered from body
fluids by virus culture for shorter periods of time after infection compared
to detection of Zika viral RNA by RT-PCR.

## References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1. Bearcroft WGC. Zika virus infection experimentally induced in a human volunteer. _Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg_ 1956;50:442-8.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2. Musso D, Nhan T, Robin E, et al. Potential for Zika virus transmission through blood transfusion demonstrated during an outbreak in French Polynesia, November 2013 to February 2014. _Eurosurveillance_ 2014;19:pii=20761.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3. Alera M, Hermann L, Tac-An IA, et al. Zika virus infection, Philippines, 2012. _Emerg Infect Dis_. 2015;21:722-4.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4. Fonseca K, Meatherall B, Zarra D, et al. First case of Zika virus infection in a returning Canadian traveler. _Am J Trop Med Hyg_ 2014;91:1035-8.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5. Zhang F, Li X, Deng Y, et al. Excretion of infectious Zika virus in urine. _Lancet Infect Dis_ 2016;16:641-2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6. Bonaldo MC, Ribeiro IP, Lima NS, et al. Isolation of infective Zika virus from urine and saliva of patients in Brazil. _PLoS Negl Trop Dis_ 2016;10: e0004816.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7. van der Eijk AA, van Genderen PJ, Verdijk RM, et al. Miscarriage associated with Zika virus infection. _N Engl J Med_ 2016;375:10.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8. Sun J, Wu D, Zhong H, et al. Presence of Zika virus in conjunctival fluid. _J Am Med Assoc Ophtho_ 2016;134:1330-2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9. Dupont-Rouzeyrol M, Byron A, O'Connor O, et al. Infectious Zika viral particles in breast milk. _Lancet_ 2016;387:1051.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10. D'Ortenzio E, Matheron S, Yazdanpanah Y, et al. Evidence of sexual transmission of Zika virus. _N Engl J Med_ 2016;374:2195-8.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            11. Musso D, Roche C, Robin E, Nhan T, Teissier A, Cao-Lormeau VM. Potential sexual transmission of Zika virus. _Emerg Infect Dis_ 2015;21:359-61.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12. Mansuy JM, Dutertre M, Mengelle C, et al. Zika virus: high infectious viral load in semen, a new sexually transmitted pathogen? _Lancet Infect Dis_ 2016;16:405.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            13. Arsuaga M, Bujalance SG, Diaz-Menendez M, Vazquez A, Arribas JR. Probable sexual transmission of Zika virus from a vasectomised man. _Lancet Infect Dis_ 2016;16:1107.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            14. Jang H, Park WB, Kim UJ, et al. First imported case of Zika virus infection into Korea. _J Korean Med Sci_ 2016;31:1173-7.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            15. Penot P, Brichler S, Guilleminot J, et al. Infectious Zika virus in vaginal secretions from an HIV-infected woman, France, August 2016. _Euro Surveill_ 2017;22:pii=30444.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            16. Barzon L, Pacenti M, Berto A, et al. Isolation of infectious Zika virus from saliva and prolonged viral RNA shedding in a traveler returning from the Dominican Republic to Italy, January 2016. _Euro Surveill_ 2016;21:pii=30159.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            17. Mecharles S, Herrmann C, Poullain P, et al. Acute myelitis due to Zika virus infection. _Lancet_ 2016;387:1481.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            18. Nicastri E, Castilletti C, Balestra P, Galgani S, Ippolito G. Zika virus infection in the central nervous system and female genital tract. _Emerg Infect Dis_. 2016;22(12):2228-30.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            19. Sarno M, Sacramento GA, Khouri R, et al. Zika virus infection and stillbirths: a case of hydrops fetalis, hydranencephaly and fetal demise. _PLoS Negl Trop Dis_ 10: e0004517.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            20. Acevedo N, Waggoner J, Rodriguez M, et al. Zika virus, Chikungunya virus, and dengue virus in cerebrospinal fluid from adults with neurological manifestations, Guayaquil, Ecuador. _Front Microbiol_ 2017;8:42.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            21. Furtado JM, Esposito, DL, Klein TM, Teixeira-Pinto T, da Fonseca BA. Uveitis associated with Zika virus infection. _N Engl J Med_ 2016;375:394-6.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            22. Prisant N, Bujan L, Benichou H, et al. Zika virus in the female genital tract. _Lancet Infect Dis_ 2016;16:1000-1.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            23. Leung GH, Baird RW, Druce J, Anstey NM. Zika virus infection in Australia following a monkey bite in Indonesia. Southeast Asian _J Trop Med Public Health_ 2015;46:460-4.

Page last reviewed: January 29, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Vector-
Borne Diseases (DVBD)

home Zika Virus Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About Zikaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * What You Need to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Questions About Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevention & Transmissionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Protect Yourself & Othersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Build a Zika Prevention Kit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Prevent Mosquito Bitesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Controlling Mosquitoes at Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sexual Transmission & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Plan for Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika & Blood Transfusion
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika & Animals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Men & Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Symptoms, Testing, & Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Testing for Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zika in the USplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Blood & Tissue Collection Community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Statistics & Mapsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2020 Case Counts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2019 Case Counts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2018 Case Counts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2017 Case Counts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2016 Case Counts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2015 Case Counts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mosquito Controlplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Integrated Mosquito Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika Vector Control in the Continental US
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Potential Range in US
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * For Professionalsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Surveillance & Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Information on Aerial Spraying
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Insecticide Resistanceplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Testing in Puerto Rico
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Mosquitoes & Hurricanes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Health Effects & Risksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Microcephaly & Other Birth Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Guillain-BarrÃ© Syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Information for Specific Groupsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Blood & Tissue Collection Centers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * For Healthcare Providersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Clinical Evaluation & Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sexual Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Testing for Zikaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Testing Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Diagnostic Tests
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Test Specimens â At Time of Birth 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Infection Controlplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Healthcare Exposure to Zika & Infection Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Interim Guidance for Managing Occupational Exposures to Zika Virus for Healthcare Personnel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * For Laboratoriesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Lab Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Testing for Zika Virus Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Test Specimens â Body Fluids
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Test Specimens â Tissues
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Resources & Publicationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epidemiologic Investigation Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Communication Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika Communication Toolkits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Video Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Print Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika Widgets

![Zika and Pregnancy button.  ](/zika/images/pregnancy-button.jpg)

![CDC MMWR Zika button](/zika/images/Zika_MMWR_button.jpg)

![Zika microsite button](/zika/images/highlights-zikamicrosite-purple.jpg)

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

