https://www.cdc.gov/healthywater/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/healthywater/index.html    
                Description: Education and information about healthy water, including drinking water, swimming / recreational water, recreational water illnesses, diseases related to water, global water, safe water for sanitation and hygiene, other uses of water, and how to make water safe to drink in emergencies for outbreaks, preparedness, and response.    
                Keywords: ater,  drinking water,  recreational water,  healthy swimming,  recreational water illness,  RWI,  global water,  sanitation,  hygiene,  WASH ,  diseases and contaminants,  waterborne diseases,  emergencies,  outbreaks,  response toolkits,  water-related data,  statistics,  health data,  surveillance systems,  publications,  safe water,  healthy water,  CDC,  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Water    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Healthy Water

Section Navigation

CDC Home

            * Facebook
            * Twitter
            * LinkedIn
            * Email
            * Syndicate

# Healthy Water

Minus

Related Pages

##### With its many uses for drinking, recreation, sanitation, hygiene, and
industry, water is our most precious global resource. Clean and safe drinking
water is critical to sustain human life and without it waterborne illness can
be a serious problem. Water, which is necessary for recreational water
activities like swimming, also helps promote healthy living. Often, water's
vital role is most apparent during an emergency or disaster. We launched the
Healthy Water website to provide answers to your water-related questions.

exclamation circle solid icon

There is no evidence showing anyone has gotten COVID-19 through drinking
water, recreational water, or wastewater. The risk of COVID-19 transmission
through water is expected to be low. Get answers to other questions about
COVID-19 and water.

### Healthy Water Topics

Drinking Water

![Young girl drinking form water fountain](/healthywater/images/drinking-
water-sm.jpg)

Public water systems, private water systems, water fluoridation, camping,
hiking, travel...

Healthy Swimming

![Young boy diving into a pool](/healthywater/images/healthy-swimming-sm.jpg)

Pools and spas, oceans/lakes/rivers, injury and skin cancer, recreational
water illnesses...

Water, Sanitation, & Hygiene

![Person washing their hands](/healthywater/images/water-sanitation-sm.jpg)

Handwashing, body washing, facial cleanliness, hygiene etiquette...

Global Water, Sanitation, & Hygiene (WASH)

![Young boy drinking from a faucet](/healthywater/images/global-water-sm.jpg)

Community systems, household treatment & storage, sanitation and hygiene,
travelers' health...

WASH-related Emergencies & Outbreaks

![Natural water disaster](/healthywater/images/wash-related-emergencies-
sm.jpg)

Safe water, wastewater, hygiene, public health toolkits...

Other Uses of Water

![Dentist operating on a patient's mouth](/healthywater/images/other-use-of-
water-sm.jpg)

Agricultural, industrial, medical...

### Healthy Water Resources

edit icon

Health Promotion Materials

clothes icon

Training & Education

badge icon

Policy & Recommendations

book icon

Index of Water-Related Topics

audio icon

Newsroom, Features, & Announcements

hazard icon

CDC at Work: Healthy Water

tools icon

Fast Facts

calendar icon

WASH-related Observances

Top Causes of Drinking and Recreational Water Outbreaks*

###### Top 5 Causes - Drinking Water Outbreaks

            * _Giardia_
            * _Legionella_
            * _Shigella_
            * Norovirus
            * _Campylobacter_

###### Top 5 Causes - Recreational Water Outbreaks

            * _Cryptosporidium_
            * _Pseudomonas_
            * _Shigella_
            * _Legionella_
            * Norovirus

For a complete listing of water-related surveillance data, see CDC's
Surveillance Summaries for Waterborne Disease and Outbreaks.

A-Z Index of Water-related Topics

A    B    C    D    E    F    G    H    I    J    K    L    M    N    O    P
Q    R    S    T    U    V    W    X    Y    Z  

For Specific Groups

![Water related topics for specific groups](/healthywater/images/specific-
groups.jpg)

            * Public
            * Public Health & Medical Professionals
            * Aquatics, Water Utilities, & Other Water-related Sectors

Publications, Data, & Statistics

![Publications, data and statistics](/healthywater/images/data-stats-vp4.jpg)

* Based on tracking of waterborne outbreaks from 1971-2010. Only confirmed causes have been included in the analyses. For outbreaks with multiple causes, each agent counted toward the total. Outbreak reporting is dependent on capacity to detect, investigate, and report the outbreaks. This requires health effects to be measured and these health effects to be easily linked to water exposure. Clusters of illnesses associated with chronic chemical exposures are not part of waterborne disease outbreak reporting or part of these lists.

Page last reviewed: March 23, 2020

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID),, Division of
Foodborne, Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases (DFWED)

home Healthy Water

            * Health Promotion Materials
            * Newsroom, Features, & Announcements
            * Training & Education
            * CDC at Work: Healthy Water
            * Policy & Recommendations
            * Fast Facts
            * Index of Water-Related Topics expand
              * By A-Z
            * Water, Sanitation, & Hygiene-related Observances
            * Information for Specific Groups expand
              * Public
              * Public Health & Medical Professionals
              * Aquatics, Water Utilities, & Other Water-related Sectors
            * Publications, Data, & Statistics expand
              * Magnitude & Burden of Waterborne Disease in the U.S. expand
                * Current Data & Gaps
                * Need for a Comprehensive Estimate
                * Goals & Strategy for Development
              * Waterborne Disease & Outbreak Surveillance Reporting
              * Reporting (NORS)
              * Health Data expand
                * Nationally Notifiable Diseases
              * Environmental Tracking Data
              * Biomonitoring Data

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

            * About CDC
            * Jobs
            * Funding
            * Policies
            * File Viewers & Players

            * Privacy
            * FOIA
            * No Fear Act
            * OIG
            * Nondiscrimination
            * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

            * Facebook
            * Twitter
            * Youtube
            * Instagram
  

            * Syndicate
            * CDC TV
            * RSS
            * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

            * Facebook
            * Twitter
            * LinkedIn
            * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

            * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
            * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
            * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
            * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

