https://www.cdc.gov/media/releases/2020/s0407-michael-patterson-passing-smoking.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/media/releases/2020/s0407-michael-patterson-passing-smoking.html    
                Description: CDC public health news, press releases, government public health news, medical and disease news, story ideas, photos.    
                Keywords: CDC,  saving lives,  protecting people,  health threats,  saving money,  secure nation,  US federal agency,  healthy choice,  science,  prevention, CDC Newsroom    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

CDC Newsroom

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email
                      * Syndicate

# Statement from CDC Director Robert R. Redfield, MD on the passing of Michael
Patterson, Tips From Former Smokers ad participant

Minus

Related Pages

**Media Statement**

For Immediate Release: Tuesday, April 7, 2020  
**Contact:**  Media Relations  
(404) 639-3286

We are deeply saddened by the passing of Michael Patterson, 64, a U.S. Army
veteran, an Alaska Native, and a member of the Tlingit tribe.

At age 44, Michael was diagnosed with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
(COPD) caused by smoking. He spent the final decade of his life helping people
who smoke to quit commercial tobacco products and encouraging youth to never
start. Michael bravely came forward to share his heartfelt story and to warn
others about the dangers of cigarette smoking as part of CDC's _Tips From
Former Smokers_ campaign.

We extend our sincere condolences to Michael's family and friends.

Michael's Videos:
https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/campaign/tips/stories/michael.html#michaels-videos

###  
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICESexternal icon

_CDC works 24/7 protecting America 's health, safety and security. Whether
disease start at home or abroad, are curable or preventable, chronic or acute,
or from human activity or deliberate attack, CDC responds to America's most
pressing health threats. CDC is headquartered in Atlanta and has experts
located throughout the United States and the world._

Page last reviewed: April 7, 2020

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Newsroom Home

                      * Press Materialsplus icon
                        * CDC Newsroom Releasesplus icon
                          * 2020 News Releases
                          * 2019 News Releases
                          * 2018 News Releases
                          * Historical News Releases
                        * Digital Press Kit
                      * Journal Summariesplus icon
                        * MMWR Summaries
                        * EID Summaries
                        * PCD Summaries
                      * Digital Mediaplus icon
                        * CDC B-Roll
                        * Image Library
                        * CDC Press Briefing
                      * CDC Spokespersonplus icon
                        * Michael J. Beach, PhD
                        * Michael Bell, MD
                        * John T. Brooks, MD
                        * Inger K. Damon, MD, PhD
                        * Debra E. Houry, MD, MPH
                        * Daniel B. Jernigan, MD, MPH (CAPT, USPHS)
                        * Jennifer McQuiston, DVM, MS (CAPT, USPHS)
                        * Eric Pevzner, PhD, MPH (CAPT, USPHS)
                        * Stephen Redd, MD (RADM, USPHS)
                        * Arjun Srinivasan, MD (CAPT, USPHS)
                      * Contact Media Relationsplus icon
                        * Frequently Asked Questions

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit



Connect with CDC Media

rss  Subscribe to RSS Feeds

govd  Subscribe to email

syndication  Syndicate on Your Site

CDC Quick Links

                      * Data & Statistics
                      * Freedom of Information Act Office
                      * Public Health Image Library (PHIL)

![CDC 24/7 – Saving Lives. Protecting People. Saving Money Through Prevention.
Learn More About How CDC Works For
You…](https://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/24-7/24-7_i150x120.gif)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                      * About CDC
                      * Jobs
                      * Funding
                      * Policies
                      * File Viewers & Players

                      * Privacy
                      * FOIA
                      * No Fear Act
                      * OIG
                      * Nondiscrimination
                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * Youtube
                      * Instagram
  

                      * Syndicate
                      * CDC TV
                      * RSS
                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

