https://www.cdc.gov/arthritis/marketing-support/1-2-3-approach/faq-section-one.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/arthritis/marketing-support/1-2-3-approach/faq-section-one.html    
                Description: FAQs about chronic disease self-management education and physical activity interventions. Review when preparing to conduct an outreach visit.    
                Keywords: arthritis intervention support, promoting arthritis interventions, promoting community interventions for arthritis, marketing interventions for arthritis    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Arthritis

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

# FAQs Section One

Minus

Related Pages

### Section 1: Implementing the 1.2.3 Approach to Provider Outreach

This section covers questions your team may have about planning for and
implementing your provider outreach initiative. Ask your team to review these
FAQs as part of their training. These FAQs are designed to complement and
expand upon information and tools in the marketing guide.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Why reach out to primary care practices about chronic disease self-management education and physical activity interventions?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * What is the academic detailing model?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Is there anything we can do ahead of time to make providers more receptive to outreach visits?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * How can we succeed in marketing interventions when no one on our staff has any marketing experience?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * We have a small team and limited time to devote to developing a provider outreach program. How can we be successful with the resources we have?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * How long will it take to train our team?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * What training techniques work best?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * How do we find out about competing programs in our community?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Are there any incentives I can offer providers to encourage them to recommend the interventions to their patients?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * How do I know which practices are making recommendations?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * How long will it take to make contact with all of the local primary care practices?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * How many attempts should I make at contacting the practice?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * What should I do if the practice wants to schedule an outreach visit but cannot find a time compatible with the marketer's schedule, or has rescheduled a visit multiple times?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * What should I do if the practice declines an outreach visit?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * What if the marketer has to reschedule an outreach visit due to health, weather, or other emergency?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * What should I do if the provider cuts an outreach visit short?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * How often should I follow up with the practice? Should I schedule additional in-person visits?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * What supplies will my program need to purchase in order to reproduce outreach materials?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * What are the estimated costs of these supplies, and will our CDC grant cover them?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Is special software required to customize and reproduce marketing materials?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Why do we need to prepare different materials for providers and patients?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * How many copies of the outreach materials should we provide to each practice?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * What should I do if the practice tells me that they don't want or don't have the capacity to display patient fact sheets or posters?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Are the patient materials available in other languages?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * How often will we need to update outreach materials?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * What should I do if I have technical questions about customizing or reproducing outreach materials (i.e., fact sheets, posters, follow-up post cards)?

##### **Why reach out to primary care practices about chronic disease self-
management education and physical activity interventions?**

Evidence from clinical trials and program evaluations demonstrates that self-
management education and physical activity interventions are effective for
reducing the symptoms of arthritis and other chronic diseases and improving
quality of life. Based on research sponsored by the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention (CDC) and other reputable organizations--including
Stanford University, the University of Washington, and the Arthritis
Foundation--CDC's Arthritis Program has identified a number of interventions
shown to help relieve symptoms, improve joint range of motion, and increase
participants' confidence in managing their health. CDC has allocated a portion
of its state arthritis program funding to make these interventions available
in communities across the country. Because chronic disease can be difficult to
manage, health care providers and their patients are eager for additional
treatment options. Although most providers are not aware that self-management
education and physical activity interventions are offered locally, research
with providers shows that they want to learn more, preferably via in-person
visits by knowledgeable professionals. Reaching out to providers is important
because their recommendations are powerful motivators for patients. because
their recommendations are powerful motivators for patients.  
Enrollment in these CDC-supported interventions has been low. Using the
academic detailing model, a proven model adapted from the pharmaceutical
industry, you can develop an educational outreach program for local primary
care providers (PCPs) to encourage them to recommend self-management education
and physical activity interventions to their patients with chronic disease.

 Top of Page

##### **What is the academic detailing model?**

Pharmaceutical companies typically use face-to-face outreach with health care
providers to market their products. This marketing strategy--called
"pharmaceutical detailing" and conducted by sales representatives--has proven
successful in influencing providers' prescribing habits and increasing sales
of a company's products. Universities and other non-commercial organizations
have adapted this strategy as a way to reach out to providers with information
for managing a variety of health conditions. Evaluations of these "academic
detailing" approaches show that they have an impact on the recommendations
providers make to their patients, particularly for chronic, difficult-to-
manage conditions like obesity, diabetes, and arthritis. Your marketing team
will use the detailing model to promote chronic disease self-management
education and physical activity classes to primary care providers (PCPs) in
your community.

 Top of Page

##### **Is there anything we can do ahead of time to make providers more
receptive to outreach visits?**

The first contact you have with a practice is likely to be the initial phone
call to introduce the goals of your outreach efforts and schedule an outreach
visit. However, by building on existing relationships with local providers,
you can get the word out about the interventions you are promoting and prepare
practices for eventual contact with your marketers. While you are establishing
and training your team and gathering information on primary care practices,
start by contacting providers with whom you have established relationships and
informing them of your efforts. You can also use the resources of state and
local partner organizations to target "influencers"--providers who have well-
established reputations in the local medical community and could influence the
behavior of other providers. Whether leveraging existing relationships or
reaching out to influencers, ask these providers if they are willing to
publicize their support for chronic disease intervention programs and to
recommend other interested colleagues. Starting with providers you or your
colleagues know will give your team the chance to hone your marketing approach
with a more receptive audience.  
You may also consider talking to local class instructors. Ask them to
encourage class participants to spread the word about the programs to their
doctors.

 Top of Page

##### **How can we succeed in marketing interventions when no one on our staff
has any marketing experience?**

The marketing guide and outreach materials are designed to help you and your
team develop a successful provider outreach program regardless of your level
of marketing experience. Extensive experience with marketing or community
outreach isn't necessary. All you need to do is recruit team members who are
knowledgeable and enthusiastic about promoting the interventions, have good
active listening skills, are flexible and adaptable in one-on-one
interactions, and can project confidence when talking with providers and
office staff. The marketing guide will help your marketers use the simple
1.2.3 Approach to engaging primary care practices.  
Training is one of the keys to success. You should thoroughly review the
marketing guide and role play with other staff members before taking the
outreach to the field. Employing a tiered or phased approach by starting with
providers who are familiar or have expressed particular interest in self-
management education or physical activity programs can help members of your
team become comfortable with the marketing approach and refine their
techniques for making initial contact with practices and conducting outreach
visits.

 Top of Page

##### **We have a small team and limited time to devote to developing a
provider outreach program. How can we be successful with the resources we
have?**

The strategies described in this marketing guide are simple, straightforward,
and designed for busy organizations with competing priorities. To help manage
available staff and resources, consider having junior staff, interns, or
volunteers conduct the initial research to identify local primary care
practices to target. Leverage available resources from partner organizations
wherever possible, and try using a tiered or phased approach to both training
and engaging providers.  
This marketing guide includes several tools and templates (e.g., spreadsheets,
checklists) to help you organize, document, and track your outreach efforts.
Templates such as the _Marketing and Promotion Plan_ and _Evaluation Summary
Report_ are designed to be comprehensive but easy to complete. Detailed
instructions are provided for customizing outreach materials, and technical
assistance is available.

 Top of Page

##### **How long will it take to train our team?**

Training time will vary depending on your team's skills and previous
experience. In general, most teams will need about a month to become familiar
with the interventions and to practice enough role-play sessions that they are
comfortable approaching practices. Consider training in phases as marketers
move through the steps in the outreach process. For example, while some
members of your team are gathering information about practices to target,
others can begin training for the initial contact. As first contacts are made,
move to training for the outreach visit. Schedule continuing
training/education sessions throughout the year for all staff and offer
remedial training as necessary.

 Top of Page

##### **What training techniques work best?**

To accommodate different learning styles, use a combination of instructive,
interactive, and self-study sessions to train your marketing staff. Give each
person a copy of the marketing guide sections related to the tasks they'll be
doing, and walk them through the materials and their tasks step-by-step. The
key to effective provider outreach training is rehearsal: for staff who will
be in direct contact with PCPs, ensure that your training schedule allows
ample opportunity for role-play with colleagues. Role-playing exercises will
enable them to practice a variety of scenarios they may encounter during phone
and in-person contacts. Use the scripts and training video to guide role-
playing exercises. Invite providers from within your program or from other
local organizations or agencies to observe and give feedback to staff during
role-play sessions.

 Top of Page

##### **How do we find out about competing programs in our community?**

Conduct an environmental scan to determine whether there are similar programs
being promoted within the community for arthritis or other chronic health
conditions like diabetes, obesity, or heart disease. Inform other colleagues
and partners about your efforts, and ask them if they have similar activities
under way. Check the Web sites of local health care organizations and
facilities (e.g., hospital-based outpatient and wellness clinics) and social
service agencies (e.g., the local YMCA) for information about programs
available to the community. Review local newspapers, community bulletins, or
blogs for announcements about new programs or classes. Stay abreast of similar
classes being offered in the community by signing up to receive mail or
electronic newsletters and updates from local organizations.

 Top of Page

##### **Are there any incentives I can offer providers to encourage them to
recommend the interventions to their patients?**

Providers will schedule outreach visits because the information you bring is
valuable for them and for their patients. However, bringing a small gift item
may help break the ice and show a consideration that staff will appreciate and
remember. These items could include candy or other food item, or giveaways
like pens with your organization's logo.  
A powerful motivator for providers is patient feedback. Use the information
gathered from the How Did You Hear? questions you've asked class instructors
to distribute to estimate the number of successful recommendations the
provider has made. Include this information on the follow-up post cards you
send to providers to show them that their efforts are producing tangible
results, and to encourage them to continue recommending the interventions to
their patients. For additional impact, consider including patient testimonials
in your follow-up materials. Survey data suggest that testimonials are highly
influential and may reinforce provider behavior.

 Top of Page

##### **How do I know which practices are making recommendations?**

Before your local classes begin, make sure that instructors have copies of the
**How Did You Hear? form- Cdc-word[DOC - 45KB]** (or have added your questions
to their existing registration forms). Ask them to distribute the forms to
participants during the first visit. After you've collected the completed
forms, record the answers on the **How Did You Hear? Data Entry Spreadsheet-
Cdc-excel[XLS - 120KB]** or other self-designed tracking tool. The answers to
these questions capture the names of the providers or practices who
recommended an intervention. You can use this information to track the
effectiveness of your outreach efforts and to give feedback to providers.

 Top of Page

##### **How long will it take to make contact with all of the local primary
care practices?**

It will take at least 6 months to establish relationships with a practice. The
timeline will vary depending on your team's resources, staffing, and the
number of practices you are targeting. Some activities--such as training,
making initial contact, and conducting the first outreach visits--may be done
simultaneously, while others--such as follow-up--will be ongoing. Use the
first 1-2 months to identify and train your marketing staff and to target
practices for outreach. During Month 2, you should begin making initial
contact with practices. Give yourself 2-3 months to get an outreach visit
scheduled. You'll want to time your efforts so that you have met with most of
the targeted providers before the first class is scheduled to begin.

Remember that follow-up doesn't end with a postcard. Your long-term goal is to
establish ongoing relationships with providers and to continue reinforcing the
value of the interventions and provider recommendations through periodic
contact by mail, phone, and in-person visits.

 Top of Page

##### **How many attempts should I make at contacting the practice?**

By following the information in the marketing guide, you should be able to
make at least initial contact with a staff member at the practice. However, if
after 3 attempts you are unable to speak with the designated primary contact
at the practice, consider alternate options:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Some busy practices prefer drop-in visits. Prepare your outreach materials and make an unscheduled visit. It's best to arrive first thing in the morning, just before the lunch hour, or towards the end of the day--periods when the patient volume is likely to be lower and staff may have a few minutes to meet with you.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Use your existing relationships with other local providers or influencers to make inroads with the unresponsive practice. Informal reminders from respected colleagues about your outreach efforts may prompt providers to contact you or make them more receptive to further phone calls and mailers from you.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Mail a packet of information to the practice, addressed to the primary contact (if known). Include your business card and a short note introducing yourself. There is a downside to mailing materials before making contact with a practice: research shows that unsolicited materials may not be read by providers and staff. If you have not heard from the practice within 1-2 weeks, call again. If the staff has had a chance to review the materials, they may be more receptive to your calls.

If practices do not respond to alternate contact strategies after
approximately 2 months, end your efforts until you begin outreach work again
for the next cycle of intervention classes.

 Top of Page

##### **What should I do if the practice declines an outreach visit?**

Practices are likely to be interested in learning more about the interventions
once they've had the opportunity to hear your initial pitch. However, some
practices may be skeptical at first, and may decline your offer to schedule an
outreach visit. If this happens, try the following:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ask the staff member you have contacted why the practice is declining a visit. They may be concerned about having the time available to meet with you. They may be skeptical about the effectiveness of the interventions, or they may feel that their patients won't be interested. The scripts provided in this marketing guide provide you with responses for each of these scenarios. Use them to address the practice's concerns.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The practice may be concerned that you are selling a product or other services. Reiterate your affiliation and partnership with CDC and remind the practice that your goal is to promote healthier behaviors in people with arthritis and other chronic health conditions.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Offer to mail or drop off outreach materials for the provider and staff to review. Call back or drop by again 1-2 weeks later and see if the practice is more receptive to scheduling a formal visit.

If these strategies don't work, end your efforts with the practice. You may
try contacting them again once you begin outreach for the next season's
classes. In the meantime, you might ask their colleagues or local influencers
to put in a good word with the practice about the interventions and your
outreach work.

 Top of Page

##### **What if the marketer has to reschedule an outreach visit due to
health, weather, or other emergency?**

The marketer or another team member should call the practice as soon as he or
she knows that the visit needs to be rescheduled. Set a new date and time that
is convenient for the practice. Offer to meet during off-hours--e.g., early
morning before the first patient is scheduled, after the last appointment of
the day, or during lunch time. If the visit needs to be rescheduled more than
1 week later, offer to mail or drop off materials in advance.

An alternate strategy is to see if another intervention marketer on your team
is available to meet with the practice as originally scheduled. If so, make
sure to give the practice the option of meeting with a different person or
rescheduling with the original marketer.

 Top of Page

##### **What should I do if the provider cuts an outreach visit short?**

When trying to schedule time with busy providers, you're bound to encounter
unexpected situations. Refer to the visit script - Cdc-pdf[PDF - 567KB] and
training video to practice a variety of scenarios. Although the guide suggests
planning for a 5-minute visit, you may find that you only have 1-2 minutes of
the provider's time in the hallway between office visits. When this happens,
don't get flustered. During the time you have with the provider, stay focused
on the core messages ("the three Cs"--cost, convenience, and credibility--and
effectiveness) as you practiced during your training role-play sessions. Leave
your business card and outreach materials with the receptionist or office
manager. Try to schedule a follow-up visit or phone call as soon as possible
to answer questions and reinforce information already provided.

 Top of Page

##### **How often should I follow up with the practice? Should I schedule
additional in-person visits?**

To reinforce the messages conveyed during your outreach visit, aim to make
approximately 3 contacts during the first two months post-visit. Choose
follow-up techniques that require minimal levels of effort. For example, place
a call to the office approximately 2 weeks after a visit to see if there are
any follow-up questions. You can also use the camera-ready artwork files
provided with this marketing guide to create postcards to which you can add a
personalized message, class announcements or reminders, and patient enrollment
information or testimonials. Mail these postcards to your primary contact at
each practice. As new research findings are published on the interventions you
are promoting, attach copies of journal articles to the post cards. Be
available for follow-up by phone or e-mail as needed.

Consider conducting in-person visits at least once a year as continuing
education and to maintain a relationship with the practice. Schedule these
visits to coincide with a new season of intervention classes.

 Top of Page

##### **What supplies will my program need to purchase in order to reproduce
outreach materials?**

The materials are designed so that they can be reproduced using standard
office equipment and supplies. For best results, have the materials printed by
a vendor (e.g., local printer or FedEx Office store). If you are printing from
your desktop, have the following supplies on hand:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 8½" x 11" laser paper (24 lb. and 32 lb.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 8½" x 11" card stock (65 lb.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 11" x 17" laser paper (24 lb. or 32 lb.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 8½" x 11" standard Avery labels (Avery 8255)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 9" x 12" two-pocket folders with business card slit; available from vendors such as Paper Direct, Office Depot, and Staples.

 Top of Page

##### **What are the estimated costs of these supplies, and will our CDC grant
cover them?**

Costs will vary by location and vendor. Color laser paper is generally priced
at $10-$20 for a 500-sheet ream; laser gloss paper may run up to $30 or $40.
The Avery labels typically cost around $40 for 100 labels. Card stock costs
$12-$15 for 250 sheets. Most two-pocket folders run $1-$4 each.

 Top of Page

##### **Is special software required to customize and reproduce marketing
materials?**

No. Electronic files of all customizable templates are saved in Microsoft
Word, Excel, or PowerPoint, and compatible with Microsoft Office 2007 and
earlier versions. Fillable PDFs are compatible with the Adobe Acrobat family;
you can customize them with only Adobe Reader. All materials are available for
download  in the The 1.2.3 Approach to Provider Outreach section of this
website.

 Top of Page

##### **Why do we need to prepare different fact sheets for providers and
patients?**

Both the provider and patient materials cover information on the interventions
(e.g., course descriptions, goals, benefits) and emphasize "the three Cs"
(cost, convenience, and credibility). However, their content addresses the
particular concerns of each audience, as reported in research conducted to
prepare for this outreach approach. The fact sheets developed for providers
discuss in more detail the scientific evidence supporting the use of the
interventions, focusing on their credibility and effectiveness. These
materials are written for medical professionals and require a familiarity with
clinical and research terminology. They present the interventions as
additional treatment tools for healthier and more satisfied patients. The
patient brochure and class schedules are written in conversational, plain
language (approximately an eighth grade reading level) and are appropriate for
a broader audience. They address some of the barriers to and concerns patients
have about signing up for self-management education and physical activity
programs. They emphasize the goal of increased autonomy to convince patients
they can be active partners in managing their own health.

 Top of Page

##### **How many copies of the outreach materials should we provide to each
practice?**

To each outreach visit, bring the following:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 1 copy of the provider overview fact sheet for each PCP or staff member
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 1 copy of each provider intervention fact sheet for each PCP or staff member
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 1 copy of each evidence summary (if available) for each PCP or staff member
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 50-100 copies of the patient brochure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 50-100 copies of each class schedule
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 1-3 posters

Always leave at least one provider packet. During the visit, ask the provider
or other staff member how many posters and patient fact sheets they would like
you to leave behind. The number will depend on the volume of patients the
practice sees and the space it has available to display materials. Assure the
staff that you will resupply materials as needed; they can call you when their
stock is running low, or you will send or bring new materials as part of your
regular follow-up.

 Top of Page

##### **What should I do if the practice tells me that they don 't want or
don't have the capacity to display patient materials or posters?**

You can suggest that the practice keep these on file with other patient
informational materials to hand out as needed. You can also offer ideas for
displaying posters. If the waiting room and exam room walls are full, suggest
hanging a poster in the patient bathroom, near the laboratory, or in the
hallway.

 Top of Page

##### **Are the patient materials available in other languages?**

Yes, the patient brochure is available in Spanish as ¡Hagase cargo! Tomando
Control de su Salud! - Cdc-pdf[PDF - 542KB]. Class schedules for three Spanish
language programs are available in both English and Spanish.

 Top of Page

##### **How often will we need to update outreach materials?**

Update the patient and provider materials whenever class offerings, schedules,
locations, or local contact information changes. At minimum, the fact sheets
will need to be updated each spring and fall to reflect the new season's class
schedules.

Remember to provide updated copies of the materials to your local practices.
Depending on your outreach follow-up plan, you can mail the updated copies,
drop them off in person, or bring them as part of another scheduled outreach
visit. Consider marketer availability, postal fees, your proximity to the
practice, and your relationship with the provider when deciding how best to
disseminate the updated information. Restocking is an opportunity for another
conversation with the provider and for building a relationship with the
practice, so marketers are encouraged to deliver the updated materials in
person as resources allow. If mailing the materials is the most efficient
option, try to follow up with an in-person visit at the provider's
convenience. When mailing materials to a practice, remember to address the
package to the name and title of your primary contact (e.g., Sarah Smith--
Office Manager).

 Top of Page

##### **What should I do if I have technical questions about customizing or
reproducing outreach materials (i.e., fact sheets, posters, follow-up post
cards)?**

If you have questions about the toolkit or need technical assistance with the
materials, contact arthritisprogram@cdc.gov.

 Top of Page

Page last reviewed: November 26, 2018

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , National Center
for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion , Division of Population
Health

home Arthritis

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDCâs Arthritis Programplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * CDC-RFA-DP18-1803 NOFOplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Attachment 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Key Public Health Messages
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Policy Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Partners of CDCâs Arthritis Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Reach of CDC-Funded Arthritis Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Arthritis Basicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Arthritis Typesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Osteoarthritis (OA)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Fibromyalgia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Gout
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Childhood Arthritis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Managing Arthritis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Risk Factors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Physical Activity for Arthritis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Pain and Arthritis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Data and Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * National Statistics plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * National Statistics Text Descriptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * State Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Health Disparity Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cost Statistics 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Disabilities and Limitations 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Comorbidities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Arthritis Case Definitionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Case Definition FAQs 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Arthritis-Related Statistics 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC-Funded Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Evaluation of Work-Related Outcomes of the Chronic Disease Self-Management Program (CDSMP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Johnston County Osteoarthritis Project
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC-Funded Partnersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * CDC-Funded National Organizations 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * CDC-Funded State Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * CDC-Funded Rural Health Activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tools for Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Information for Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC Publicationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * CDC Publications by Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * CDC Publications by Topic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Lifestyle Management Programs plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Physical Activity Programs 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Self-Management Education Workshops
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Program Descriptionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Arthritis Foundation Aquatic Program (AFAP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Arthritis Foundation Exercise Program (AFEP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Active Living Every Day (ALED)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Better Choices, Better Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chronic Disease Self-Management Program (CDSMP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * EnhanceFitness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Fit & Strong!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tomando Control de su Salud
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tool Kit for Active Living with Chronic Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Walk with Ease (WWE)âGroup
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Walk with EaseâSelf-Directed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Marketing and Support for Interventionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Ambassador Outreachplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Coordinatorâs Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Person-to-Person Ambassador Handbook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Spokesperson Ambassador Handbook 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * The 1.2.3 Approach to Provider Outreachplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Provider Outreach Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Developing a Marketing and Promotion Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Preparing for Provider Outreach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Conducting Provider Outreach 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Evaluating Your Efforts 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FAQsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FAQs section one
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FAQs section two
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * SME Issue Briefs 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Compendium of Interventions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * ASMP/CDSMP Meta-Analysis Executive Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Communication Campaignsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Physical Activity. The Arthritis Pain Reliever.plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Campaign Materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Buenos dÃ­as, artritisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Download Spanish Materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Download English Materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Communications Centerplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Press Room
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Videos and Podcasts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Web Features
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Social Media Messages

Get E-mail Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

word Excel PDF

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

