https://www.cdc.gov/listeria/outbreaks/enoki-mushrooms-03-20/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/listeria/outbreaks/enoki-mushrooms-03-20/index.html    
                Description: Outbreak of Listeria Infections Linked to Enoki Mushrooms    
                Keywords: Outbreak, listeria, Infections, food poisoning, mushroom, mushrooms, enoki, enoki mushrooms, Listeriosis    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

_Listeria_ (Listeriosis)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email
                      * Syndicate

# Outbreak of _Listeria_ Infections Linked to Enoki Mushrooms

Minus

Related Pages

![Illustration with a triangle and exclamation mark and text reading Food
Safety Alert](/listeria/images/food-safety-alert-banner.jpg)

Posted March 27, 2020 at 5:00 PM ET

Download Chinese translation pdf icon[PDF - 424 KB].

**CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) are investigating a multistate outbreak of
_Listeria monocytogenes_ infections linked to enoki mushrooms. **

Recall and Advice to Consumers, Retailers, Restaurants, and Food Service
Operators

![Illustration of a clipboard with check marks on
it.](/salmonella/images/outbreaks/clipboard.jpg)

At A Glance

                      * Reported Cases: 36
                      * States: 17
                      * Hospitalizations: 30
                      * Deaths: 4
                      * Recall: Yes

![Enoki mushrooms are white, with long stems and small
caps.](/listeria/outbreaks/enoki-mushrooms-03-20/images/enoki-small.jpg)

##### Recall Information

                      * Guan's Mushroom Co. (on March 23, 2020)external icon and Sun Hong Foods, Inc. (on March 9, 2020)external icon recalled enoki mushrooms because they may be contaminated with _Listeria monocytogenes_ bacteria. 
                        * Enoki mushrooms from both companies were sold in 7.05 oz / 200 g clear plastic packaging with a green label.
                        * You can find the company name on the back of the packaging.

##### Advice to Consumers, Retailers, Restaurants, and Food Service Operators

                      * **Do not eat, serve, or sell any recalled enoki mushrooms fromGuan's Mushroom Co.external icon or Sun Hong Foods, Inc.external icon**
                        * Check your refrigerator for recalled enoki mushrooms. Return them to the purchase location or throw them away.
                        * If you don't know which company your enoki mushrooms are from, throw them away.
                        * Do not eat any food made with recalled enoki mushrooms, even if some has already been eaten and no one became sick.
                      *                       * **CDC advises thatpeople who are more likely to get _Listeria_ infections - pregnant women, adults age 65 or older, and people with weakened immune systems, such as people with cancer or on dialysis - avoid eating any enoki mushrooms from Korea (Republic of Korea), even if they are not part of the recalls,** until we learn more about the source and distribution of the enoki mushrooms. 
                        * **At home, check your refrigerator** for any enoki mushrooms from Korea. If you have them or don't know which country they are from, don't eat them. Instead, throw them out and clean any surfaces and containers where they were stored.
                        * **When you buy, order, or eat out, check with stores and restaurants** that they do not use enoki mushrooms from Korea. If they don't know where their enoki mushrooms are from, don't buy or order the product.
                      * **Wash and sanitize** any surfaces and containers that may have come in contact with the recalled enoki mushrooms. _Listeria_ can survive in refrigerated temperatures and can easily spread to other foods and surfaces. 
                        * Follow these five steps to clean your refrigerator.
                        * Wash surfaces with hot, soapy water.
                        * Wash containers with hot, soapy water or in the dishwasher.
                        * FDA recommends that food processors, restaurants, and retailers who received recalled enoki mushrooms, use extra vigilance in cleaning and sanitizing any surfaces and containers that may have come in contact with these products, to reduce the risk of cross-contamination.

Latest Outbreak Information

![Illustration of a megaphone.](/salmonella/images/outbreaks/megaphone.jpg)

                      * 36 people infected with the outbreak strain of _Listeria monocytogenes_ have been reported from 17 states. 
                        * _Listeria_ was identified in ill people's samples from November 23, 2016, to December 13, 2019.
                        * 30 hospitalizations have been reported.  Four deaths have been reported from California, Hawaii, and New Jersey.
                        * Six pregnancy-associated cases have been reported, of which two resulted in fetal loss.
                      * Epidemiologic, traceback, and laboratory evidence indicates that enoki mushrooms labeled as "Product of Korea" are the likely source of this outbreak.
                      * Guan's Mushroom Co. (on March 23, 2020)external icon and Sun Hong Foods, Inc. (on March 9, 2020)external icon recalled enoki mushrooms because they may be contaminated with _Listeria monocytogenes_ bacteria.
                      * This investigation is ongoing to determine the source of contamination and if additional products are linked to illness. CDC will provide updates when more information is available.

Symptoms of _Listeria_ Infection

![Illustration of a person with stomach
pain.](/salmonella/images/outbreaks/symptoms.jpg)

                      * Listeriosis can cause different symptoms, depending on the person and the part of the body affected. 
                        * **Pregnant women** typically experience only fever and other flu-like symptoms, such as fatigue and muscle aches. However, infections during pregnancy can lead to miscarriage, stillbirth, premature delivery, or life-threatening infection of the newborn.
                        * **People other than pregnant women:** Symptoms can include headache, stiff neck, confusion, loss of balance, and convulsions in addition to fever and muscle aches.
                      * Symptoms for invasive listeriosis usually start 1 to 4 weeks after eating food contaminated with _Listeria_. Some people have reported symptoms starting as late as 70 days after exposure or as early as on the same day of exposure.

Investigation Details

#### March 27, 2020

Since the last update on March 10, there have been no additional illnesses
reported.

As of March 26, 2020, 36 people infected with the outbreak strain of _Listeria
monocytogenes_ have been reported from 17 states. A list of the states and the
number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page.

_Listeria_ was identified in ill people's samples from November 23, 2016, to
December 13, 2019. Ill people range in age from less than 1 to 97 years, with
a median age of 67. Fifty-eight percent of ill people are female. Of 32 ill
people with information available, 30 hospitalizations have been reported.
Four deaths have been reported from California, Hawaii, and New Jersey. Six
cases are pregnancy-associated and two resulted in fetal loss.

#### Investigation of the Outbreak

Epidemiologic, traceback, and laboratory evidence indicates that enoki
mushrooms labeled as "Product of Korea" are the likely source of this
outbreak.

State and local public health officials interviewed ill people about the foods
they ate in the month before they became ill. Twelve out of 22 (55%) reported
eating mushrooms, including enoki, portobello, white, button, cremini, wood
ear, maitake, and oyster.

On March 10, 2020, the California Department of Public Health collected enoki
mushrooms for testing from grocery stores. Testing identified _Listeria
monocytogenes_ in one sample and whole genome sequencing is being conducted to
determine if the _Listeria_ in these recalled mushrooms is the same as the
outbreak strain. These mushrooms are labeled as "Product of Korea" and were
distributed by Guan's Mushroom Co. On March 23, 2020, Guan's Mushroom Co.
recalled its enoki mushrooms.

On February 25, 2020, the Michigan Department of Agriculture and Rural
Development collected mushrooms for testing from a grocery store where an ill
person purchased enoki mushrooms. Two samples of enoki mushrooms yielded the
outbreak strain of _Listeria monocytogenes_. These mushrooms are labeled as
"Product of Korea" and were distributed by Sun Hong Foods, Inc. On March 9,
2020, Sun Hong Foods, Inc. recalled its enoki mushrooms.

Consumers, food service operators, and retailers should not eat, serve, or
sell recalled enoki mushrooms.

FDA is working to determine if other distributors in the United States
received the same enoki mushrooms.

On March 18, 2020, the Korean Ministry of Food and Drug Safety (MFDS) issued a
press release about their investigation findings. They detected _Listeria
monocytogenes_ in enoki mushrooms produced by two firms in Korea.

CDC is concerned that enoki mushrooms from Korea (Republic of Korea) may be
contaminated with _Listeria monocytogenes_. We are advising people who are
more likely to develop a _Listeria_ infection - pregnant women, adults age 65
or older, and people with weakened immune systems - to avoid eating **any**
enoki mushrooms from Korea, until investigators determine the source of
contamination and if additional products are linked to illness.

CDC will provide updates when more information is available.

##### Previous Updates >>

Outbreak By the Numbers

map icon

Map of Reported Cases

chart icon

Timeline of Reported Cases

Key Resources

                      * FDA: Guan's Mushroom Co. Recalls Enoki Mushroomsexternal icon
                      * FDA: Sun Hong Foods, Inc. Recalls Enoki Mushroomsexternal icon
                      * FDA: Outbreak Investigations of _Listeria monocytogenes_ - Enoki Mushroomsexternal icon
                      * Questions and Answers on  _Listeria_
                      * Preventing  _Listeria  _infection

Page last reviewed: April 2, 2020

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Foodborne,
Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases (DFWED)

home _Listeria_ (Listeriosis)

                      * Questions & Answers
                      * Symptoms
                      * Diagnosis & Treatment
                      * Prevention
                      * People at Riskplus icon
                        * Pregnant Women and Newborns
                        * Older Adults
                        * People with Weakened Immune Systems
                      * Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Reporting Timeline
                        * Outbreak of _Listeria_ Infections Linked to Enoki Mushroomsplus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Outbreak of _Listeria_ Infections Linked to Hard-boiled Eggsplus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Outbreak of _Listeria_ Infectionsplus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Outbreak of _Listeria_ Infections Linked to Deli-Sliced Productsplus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Listeria_ vinculado a carnes frÃ­as y quesos cortados en tiendas o secciones _deli_
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * Outbreak of Listeria Infection Linked to Pork Productsplus icon
                          * Outbreak of Listeria Infection Linked to Pork Products á» Viá»t Nam [PDF â 328 KB]
                          * Brote de infecciones por Listeria vinculado a productos de carne de cerdo elaborados
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * Outbreak of Listeria Infections Linked to Deli Hamplus icon
                          * Brote de infecciones por Listeria vinculado a jamÃ³n
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * Soft Raw Milk Cheese Made by Vulto Creameryplus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Information for Health Professionals
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Listeriosis Linked to Frozen Vegetablesplus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Information for Health Professionals
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Listeriosis Linked to Raw Milkplus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Information for Health Professionals
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Packaged Salads Produced at Dole Ohio Facilityplus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Information for Health Professionals
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Soft Cheeses Distributed by Karoun Dairies, Inc.plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Information for Health Professionals
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Blue Bell Creameries Ice Cream Productsplus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers, Institutions & Retailers
                          * Information for Health Professionals
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Commercially Produced, Prepackaged Caramel Applesplus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Advice to Consumers en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Oasis Brands, Inc. Cheeseplus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers and Cheese Retailers
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Wholesome Soy Products, Inc. Sproutsplus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Roos Foods Dairy Products plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Crave Brothers Farmstead Cheesesplus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Imported Frescolina Marte Brand Ricotta Salata Cheeseplus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Jensen Farms Cantaloupesplus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Timeline of Events
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * For Health Professionals
                      * Surveillanceplus icon
                        * The _Listeria_ Initiative
                        * The _Listeria_ Whole Genome Sequencing Project
                      * Publications

Related Links

                      * Food Safety
                      * Foodborne Illness Estimates
                      * Foodborne Illness Trends
                      * Foodborne Illness Attribution
                      * Foodborne Illness Outbreaks

Subscribe

                      * Social_round_rss  

  
RSS  
RSS

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                      * About CDC
                      * Jobs
                      * Funding
                      * Policies
                      * File Viewers & Players

                      * Privacy
                      * FOIA
                      * No Fear Act
                      * OIG
                      * Nondiscrimination
                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * Youtube
                      * Instagram
  

                      * Syndicate
                      * CDC TV
                      * RSS
                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

