https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/67/wr/mm6744a4.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/67/wr/mm6744a4.htm    
                Description: The unadjusted prevalence of arthritis among adults with prediabetes was 32.0%. The unadjusted prevalence of physical inactivity and obesity among adults with these conditions were 56.5% and 50.1%, respectively.    
                Keywords: Arthritis Prevalence,  Prediabetes Arthritis,  Arthritis And Type 2 Diabetes,  Arthritis And Exercise,  Arthritis And Obesity, Obesity and Genetics, Arthritis, Diabetes, Type 2 Diabetes, Obesity and Overweight, MMWR, Morbidity &amp; Mortality Weekly Report    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report ( _MMWR_ )

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

# Prevalence of Arthritis Among Adults with Prediabetes and Arthritis-Specific
Barriers to Important Interventions for Prediabetes â United States,
2009â2016

_Weekly_ / November 9, 2018 / 67(44);1238â1241

Minus

Related Pages

Michelle Sandoval-Rosario, MPH1,2; Babak Michael Nayeri; NMD2; Addey Rascon2;
Michael Boring, MS1,4; Teresa Aseret-Manygoats, MPA2; Charles G. Helmick, MD1;
Louise B. Murphy, PhD1; Jennifer M. Hootman, PhD1; Giuseppina Imperatore, MD,
PhD3; Kamil E. Barbour, PhD1 (View author affiliations)

View suggested citation

###  **Summary**

**What is already known about this topic?**

Physical activity and weight loss are recommended for adults with prediabetes
to prevent progression to type 2 diabetes. Arthritis is a barrier to physical
activity among adults with chronic conditions.

**What is added by this report?**

The unadjusted prevalence of arthritis among adults with prediabetes was
32.0%. The unadjusted prevalences of physical inactivity and obesity among
adults with these conditions were 56.5% and 50.1%, respectively.

**What are the implications for public health practice?**

Increasing physical activity and promoting weight loss can reduce risk for
type 2 diabetes and improve pain management among adults with prediabetes and
arthritis. Health care and public health professionals can address arthritis-
specific barriers to physical activity among adults with prediabetes by
promoting evidence-based arthritis interventions.

Article Metrics

##### Altmetric:

##### Citations:

##### Views:

_Views equals page views plus PDF downloads_

Metric Details

**Figures**

Figure 1

Figure 2

 **Table**

 **References**

Related Materials

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * pdf icon [PDF]

An estimated 54.4 million U.S. adults have doctor-diagnosed arthritis
(arthritis), and this number is projected to rise to 78.4 million by 2040 (
_1_ , _2_ ). Physical inactivity and obesity are two factors associated with
an increased risk for developing type 2 diabetes,* and arthritis has been
determined to be a barrier to physical activity among adults with obesity (
_3_ ). The prevalence of arthritis among the 33.9% (estimated 84 million)† of
U.S. adults with prediabetes and how these conditions are related to physical
inactivity and obesity are unknown. To examine the relationships among
arthritis, prediabetes, physical inactivity, and obesity, CDC analyzed
combined data from the 2009-2016 National Health and Nutrition Examination
Surveys (NHANES). Overall, the unadjusted prevalence of arthritis among adults
with prediabetes was 32.0% (26 million). Among adults with both arthritis and
prediabetes, the unadjusted prevalences of leisure-time physical inactivity
and obesity were 56.5% (95% confidence intervals [CIs] = 51.3-61.5) and 50.1%
(CI = 46.5-53.6), respectively. Approximately half of adults with both
prediabetes and arthritis are either physically inactive or have obesity,
further increasing their risk for type 2 diabetes. Health care and public
health professionals can address arthritis-specific barriers§ to physical
activity by promoting evidence-based physical activity interventions.¶
Furthermore, weight loss and physical activity promoted though the National
Diabetes Prevention Program can reduce the risk for type 2 diabetes and reduce
pain from arthritis.

NHANES** examines a sample of the U.S. noninstitutionalized adult population
through both interview and examination components. Analysis of data from
2009-2016 included 10,179 adults aged ≥20 years with a fasting plasma glucose
measurement and complete arthritis data. Backward regression equations for
adjusted fasting plasma glucose were applied.†† Prediabetes was defined as a
glycated hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) level of 5.7%-6.4% or a fasting plasma glucose
level of 100-125 mg/dL. Diabetes was defined as an HbA1c level of ≥6.5%,
fasting plasma glucose level of ≥126 mg/dL, or a "yes" response to the
question "Other than during pregnancy, has a doctor or other health
professional ever told you that you have diabetes or sugar diabetes?"
Arthritis was defined as a "yes" response to the question "Has a doctor or
other health professional ever told you that you have arthritis?" Arthritis
prevalence estimates were calculated by sociodemographic characteristics (age
group, sex, race/ethnicity, and highest attained education level). The measure
of physical activity for this study was determined by reported leisure-time
physical activity. Respondents were classified as inactive if they reported
both zero minutes per week of moderate intensity leisure-time activity and
zero minutes per week of vigorous intensity leisure-time activity in response
to aerobic physical activity questions. Measured obesity was defined as a body
mass index of ≥30 kg/m2. To compare group differences, estimates were age-
standardized to the 2000 U.S. standard population aged ≥20 years ( _4_ ).
Pairwise t-tests were used to evaluate group differences, and a Bonferroni
correction was applied to address multiple comparisons. For analyses examining
the prevalence of leisure-time physical inactivity or obesity among adults
with or without arthritis and prediabetes, adults with diabetes were excluded
to make fair comparisons between groups. All analyses accounted for the
complex sampling design including poststratification weighting and the use of
Taylor series linearization for variance estimation with statistical
significance set at p<0.05.

During 2009-2016, the overall unadjusted prevalences of adults with diabetes
and prediabetes were 13.1% and 35.8%, respectively. The annualized unadjusted
prevalence of arthritis among adults with prediabetes was 32.0% (CI =
29.7-34.5), or an estimated 26 million persons (Table). The annualized
unadjusted prevalence of arthritis among adults with diabetes was 42.0% (CI =
38.1-45.9) (approximately 13 million persons). The age-standardized prevalence
of arthritis among adults with prediabetes was 25.9% (CI = 24.0%-27.9%)
(Table). The prevalence of arthritis was not significantly different from that
among adults with diabetes (30.2%; CI = 26.5-34.2, p = 0.09), but was
significantly higher than that for adults without prediabetes or arthritis
(21.9%; CI = 20.1%-23.9%; p = 0.03). Although data were combined, the age-
standardized prevalence of arthritis for adults with prediabetes for each year
was relatively consistent across all 8 years.

Among adults with prediabetes, arthritis prevalence was highest among those
aged ≥65 years (55.7%); arthritis prevalence was significantly lower among
adults aged 20-44 years (10.1%) and 45-64 years (34.8%). Age-standardized
arthritis prevalence was significantly higher among women (31.0%) and non-
Hispanic whites (29.0%) than among men and other racial/ethnic groups (Table).

The unadjusted prevalences of leisure-time physical inactivity and obesity
among adults with both prediabetes and arthritis were 56.5% (CI = 51.3-61.5)
and 50.1% (CI = 46.5-53.6), respectively. The age-standardized prevalence of
leisure-time physical inactivity among adults with both prediabetes and
arthritis (54.0%; CI = 46.1-61.6) was significantly higher than that among
adults with neither prediabetes nor arthritis (39.5%; CI = 36.5-42.6), but not
for adults with one condition (either prediabetes or arthritis only) (Figure
1). In addition, the age-standardized prevalence of obesity among adults with
arthritis and prediabetes (57.8%; CI = 51.5-64.0) was significantly higher
than that among adults with prediabetes only (41.6%; CI = 38.9-44.4),
arthritis only (36.1%; CI = 32.0-40.4), and neither prediabetes nor arthritis
(25.2%; CI = 22.7-27.8) (Figure 2).

Top

##  Discussion

During 2009-2016, approximately one in three adults in the United States with
prediabetes (26 million) had arthritis. The comorbid burden of arthritis and
prediabetes is substantial, particularly among persons aged ≥65 years, women,
and non-Hispanic whites. Moreover, approximately half of adults with both
prediabetes and arthritis reported being physically inactive or had obesity,
which might further increase their risk for type 2 diabetes. Health care and
public health professionals can use this information to better understand and
target appropriate evidence-based interventions for persons with arthritis and
prediabetes.

Arthritis can hinder the ability of adults with prediabetes to engage in
physical activity to prevent type 2 diabetes. The combination of arthritis and
other chronic conditions, such as obesity, has been determined to be
associated with higher levels of physical inactivity ( _5_ ). Physical
activity can improve physical function and mobility, reduce blood glucose
levels and weight, which in turn can lower both the risk for developing type 2
diabetes, and alleviate pain related to arthritis.§§

Physical inactivity can increase the risk for progression of prediabetes to
type 2 diabetes ( _6_ ). Increasing physical activity and weight loss are
recommended as parts of self-management strategies for type 2 diabetes
prevention ( _7_ ). Lifestyle change programs, such as the CDC's National
Diabetes Prevention Program, encourage moderate intensity physical activity to
reduce the risk for developing type 2 diabetes by promoting long-term
behavioral changes that affect physical activity (e.g., time management and
mood cues). Although studies specifically linking the National Diabetes
Prevention Program to reduced arthritis-specific barriers to physical activity
(e.g., joint pain) are limited, there is evidence that the National Diabetes
Prevention Program can promote weight loss and that weight loss can in turn
help reduce joint pain and improve function. A meta-analysis of four
randomized controlled trials indicated that a 5.1% reduction in weight over 20
weeks can reduce pain and functional disability in patients with knee
osteoarthritis and obesity ( _8_ ). Thus, weight loss has benefits for both
managing arthritis and preventing progression to type 2 diabetes.

Providers can reduce arthritis-specific barriers to physical activity by
referring patients to the National Diabetes Prevention Program and other
evidence-based, community programs. Several community groups and self-directed
physical activity programs are available for adults with arthritis (e.g.,
EnhanceFitness, Walk with Ease, Active Living Every Day, and tai chi [ _9_ ])
and can address arthritis-specific barriers to being physically active among
adults by reducing joint pain, which in turn might increase physical activity.
Community-based organizations, including the National Recreation and Parks
Association¶¶ and the YMCA,*** disseminate these and other evidence-based
physical activity programs throughout the United States. A meta-analysis of
chronic disease self-management programs indicated short-term and sustained
increases in aerobic physical activity and reduced joint pain ( _10_ ).

The findings in this report are subject to at least four limitations. First,
NHANES is a cross-sectional study, and, therefore, temporal relationships
cannot be established between prediabetes and arthritis. Second, most
characteristics examined were self-reported, and diagnosis for arthritis was
not confirmed by a health care professional. In addition, self-reported
variables, such as leisure-time physical activity, might be subject to social
desirability bias. Third, the measure of physical inactivity excludes
occupational physical activity, which for some persons might be their only
form of physical activity. Finally, these findings cannot distinguish among
the different types of arthritis.

Approximately 26 million adults with prediabetes (about one in three) have
arthritis, and approximately half of those with both conditions are physically
inactive or have obesity. Health care and public health professionals can
address arthritis-specific barriers to being physically active among adults
with prediabetes by promoting evidence-based arthritis interventions,
including programs such as EnhanceFitness, Walk with Ease, Active Living Every
Day, and tai chi. Furthermore, increased dissemination of the National
Diabetes Prevention Program can potentially reduce the risk for developing
type 2 diabetes among adults with arthritis and assist them with managing
their pain from arthritis.

Top

Corresponding author: Michelle Sandoval-Rosario, ftv2@cdc.gov, 602-364-4810.

Top

* * *

1Division of Population Health, CDC; 2Arizona Department of Health Services;
3Division of Diabetes Translation, CDC; 4Cetechs, Mesa, Arizona.

Top

All authors have completed and submitted the ICMJE form for disclosure of
potential conflicts of interest. No potential conflicts of interest were
disclosed.

Top

  

* https://www.cdc.gov/diabetes/prevention/index.html.

† https://www.cdc.gov/diabetes/data/statistics/statistics-report.html.

§ https://www.cdc.gov/arthritis/.

¶ https://www.cdc.gov/arthritis/interventions/physical-activity.html.

** https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhanes/index.htm.

†† https://wwwn.cdc.gov/Nchs/Nhanes/2015-2016/GLU_I.htm.

§§ https://www.arthritis.org/living-with-arthritis/comorbidities/diabetes-and-
arthritis/rheumatoid-arthritis-diabetes-risk.phpexternal icon.

¶¶ https://www.nrpa.org/our-work/partnerships/initiatives/healthy-aging-in-
parks/external icon.

*** http://www.ymca.net/enhancefitness/external icon.

Top

##  References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1. Barbour KE, Helmick CG, Boring M, Brady TJ. Vital signs: prevalence of doctor-diagnosed arthritis and arthritis-attributable activity limitation--United States, 2013-2015\. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2017;66:246-53\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2. Hootman JM, Helmick CG, Barbour KE, Theis KA, Boring MA. Updated projected prevalence of self-reported doctor-diagnosed arthritis and arthritis-attributable activity limitation among US adults, 2015-2040\. Arthritis Rheumatol 2016;68:1582-7\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3. CDC. Arthritis as a potential barrier to physical activity among adults with obesity--United States, 2007 and 2009. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2011;60:614-8\. PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4. Klein RJ, Schoenborn CA. Age adjustment using the 2000 projected U.S. population. Healthy People 2010 Stat Notes 2001:1-9\. https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/statnt/statnt20.pdfpdf icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5. Qin J, Theis KA, Barbour KE, Helmick CG, Baker NA, Brady TJ. Impact of arthritis and multiple chronic conditions on selected life domains--United States, 2013. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2015;64:578-82\. PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6. Rutledge GE, Lane K, Merlo C, Elmi J. Coordinated approaches to strengthen state and local public health actions to prevent obesity, diabetes, and heart disease and stroke. Prev Chronic Dis 2018;15:. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7. Hamman RF, Wing RR, Edelstein SL, et al. Effect of weight loss with lifestyle intervention on risk of diabetes. Diabetes Care 2006;29:2102-7\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              8. Christensen R, Bartels EM, Astrup A, Bliddal H. Effect of weight reduction in obese patients diagnosed with knee osteoarthritis: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Ann Rheum Dis 2007;66:433-9\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              9. Callahan LF, Cleveland RJ, Altpeter M, Hackney B. Evaluation of tai chi program effectiveness for people with arthritis in the community: a randomized controlled trial. J Aging Phys Act 2016;24:101-10\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10. Brady TJ, Murphy L, O'Colmain BJ, et al. A meta-analysis of health status, health behaviors, and health care utilization outcomes of the chronic disease self-management program. Prev Chron Dis. 2013;10:120112. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon

Top

#####  **TABLE. Unadjusted and age-standardized estimates of arthritis*
prevalence among adults with prediabetes † -- National Health and Nutrition
Examination Surveys, United States, 2009-2016**![Return to your place in the
text](/TemplatePackage/3.0/images/arrow_up.gif)  

Characteristic | Sample with arthritis and prediabetes | Population with
arthritis and prediabetes (x 1,000)§ | Unadjusted prevalence % (95% CI) | Age-
standardized¶ prevalence % (95% CI)  
---|---|---|---|---  
**Overall** | **1,076** | **25,696** | **32.0 (29.7 -34.5)** | **25.9 (24.0
-27.9)**  
**Age group (yrs)**  
20-44 | 102 | 2,643 | 10.1 (8.1-12.6) | --  
45-64 | 452 | 11,796 | 34.8 (30.8-39.0) | --  
≥65 | 522 | 11,257 | 55.7 (51.4-60.0) | --  
**Sex**  
Men | 440 | 10,402 | 24.5 (21.6-27.6) | 21.5 (19.2-23.9)  
Women | 636 | 15,293 | 40.5 (37.0-44.1) | 31.0 (28.2-34.0)  
**Race/Ethnicity**  
White, non-Hispanic | 592 | 20,106 | 38.1 (35.0-41.3) | 29.0 (26.2-32.1)  
Black, non-Hispanic | 221 | 2,566 | 26.1 (23.2-29.3) | 25.0 (22.1-28.1)  
Hispanic** | 200 | 1,793 | 15.3 (13.0-18.0) | 17.3 (15.2-19.7)  
Other, non-Hispanic | 63 | 1,231 | 20.7 (15.5-27.0) | 18.3 (14.1-23.5)  
**Highest education level**  
Less than high school | 280 | 4,994 | 31.8 (27.6-36.3) | 27.5 (23.9-31.5)  
High school or equivalent | 251 | 5,871 | 31.0 (27.0-35.3) | 24.8 (21.6-28.4)  
Some college or AA degree | 320 | 7,805 | 33.1 (30.5-35.8) | 27.1 (25.1-29.2)  
College and above | 225 | 7,026 | 32.0 (27.2-37.3) | 24.1 (20.3-28.4)  
  
**Abbreviations:** AA = Associate of Arts; CI = confidence interval.  
* Arthritis was defined as a "yes" response to the question "Has a doctor or other health professional ever told you that have arthritis?"  
**†** Prediabetes was defined as glycated hemoglobin A1c level of 5.7%-6.4% or
a fasting plasma glucose level of 100-125 mg/dL.  
§ Weighted number of U.S. adults with prediabetes who have arthritis.  
¶ Prevalence estimates were age-standardized to projected U.S. 2000
population.  
** Hispanic persons might be of any race.

Top

#####  ![Return to your place in the
text](/TemplatePackage/3.0/images/arrow_up.gif)**FIGURE 1**. **Age-
standardized* prevalence of leisure-time physical inactivity, by arthritis and
prediabetes † status, excluding adults with diabetes -- National Health and
Nutrition Examination Survey, United States, 2009-2016**  

![The figure is a bar chart showing the age-standardized prevalence of
leisure-time physical inactivity, by arthritis and prediabetes status,
excluding adults with diabetes, from the National Health and Nutrition
Examination Survey in the United States, during
2009–2016.](/mmwr/volumes/67/wr/figures/mm6744a4-F1.gif)

* Estimates were age-standardized to the 2000 U.S. standard population aged ≥20 years.

† Prediabetes was defined as glycated hemoglobin A1c level of 5.7%-6.4% or a
fasting plasma glucose level of 100-125 mg/dL.

Top

#####  ![Return to your place in the
text](/TemplatePackage/3.0/images/arrow_up.gif)**FIGURE 2**. **Age-
standardized* prevalence of obesity, by arthritis and prediabetes † status,
excluding adults with diabetes -- National Health and Nutrition Examination
Survey, United States, 2009-2016**  

![The figure is a bar chart showing the age-standardized prevalence of
obesity, by arthritis and prediabetes status, excluding adults with diabetes,
from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey in the United
States, during 2009–2016.](/mmwr/volumes/67/wr/figures/mm6744a4-F2.gif)

* Estimates were age-standardized to the 2000 U.S. standard population aged ≥20 years.

† Prediabetes was defined as glycated hemoglobin A1c level of 5.7%-6.4% or a
fasting plasma glucose level of 100-125 mg/dL.

Top

  

 **Suggested citation for this article:** Sandoval-Rosario M, Nayeri BM, et
al. Prevalence of Arthritis Among Adults with Prediabetes and Arthritis-
Specific Barriers to Important Interventions for Prediabetes -- United States,
2009-2016\. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2018;67:1238-1241\. DOI:
http://dx.doi.org/10.15585/mmwr.mm6744a4external icon.

_MMWR_ and _Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report_ are service marks of the
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.  
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does
not imply endorsement by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.  
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to
_MMWR_ readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these
organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services. CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these
sites. URL addresses listed in _MMWR_ were current as of the date of
publication.

All HTML versions of _MMWR_ articles are generated from final proofs through
an automated process. This conversion might result in character translation or
format errors in the HTML version. Users are referred to the electronic PDF
version (https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr) and/or the original _MMWR_ paper copy for
printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.

Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to
mmwrq@cdc.gov.

View Page In:pdf icon

Page last reviewed: November 8, 2018

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home _MMWR_

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Early Release
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Publicationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Weekly Reportplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Past Volumes (1982-2019)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Recommendations and Reportsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Past Volumes (1990-2019)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Surveillance Summariesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Past Volumes (1983-2019)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Supplementsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Past Volumes (1985-2015)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Notifiable Infectious Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Notifiable Noninfectious Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * For Authors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About Â _MMWR_ plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Staff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Editorial Board
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Subscriptionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * _MMWR_ Paper Subscription
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Free Continuing Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Additional Â _MMWR_ Â Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Visual Abstracts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Contact Us

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

