https://www.cdc.gov/pcd/Link: https://www.cdc.gov/pcd/    
                Description: Preventing Chronic Disease (PCD) is a peer-reviewed electronic journal established by the National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion. The mission of PCD is to promote the open exchange of information and knowledge among researchers, practitioners, policy makers, and others who strive to improve the health of the public through chronic disease prevention.     
                Keywords: Preventing Chronic Disease,  PCD,  CDC,  cancer prevention and control,  communication,  community-based participatory research,  dissemination, PCD Journal (Preventing Chronic Disease)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

PCD

PCD All CDC

Submit __

For a full list of topics: All A-Z Topics

Preventing Chronic Disease

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email
                      * Syndicate

![PCD logo](/pcd/images/logo_pcd.gif)

# Preventing Chronic Disease

Minus

Related Pages

![Sad patient sitting on chair in waiting
room](/pcd/carousels/pcdsliderimages/855899968_woman.jpg)

Trouble Sleeping and Depression in Women

Women aged 20 to 30 who reported having trouble sleeping were about 4 times
more likely to have experienced depression in the previous 2 weeks, according
to new research. Read the related report.

![CDC High Obesity Program](/pcd/carousels/pcdsliderimages/pcd-web-
header-985x515-HOP.jpg)

CDC High Obesity Program Collection Now Available

This collection of 9 articles highlights approaches to improve the nutrition
and physical activity environments in rural areas with a high prevalence of
adult obesity.

![Doctor disinfects skin of patient before
vaccination](/pcd/carousels/pcdsliderimages/872604412_vaccine.jpg)

March is STD Awareness Month

Learn what role pharmacists in rural areas can play in HPV vaccine
administration and promotion.

![Portrait Of Laughing Multi-Cultural Medical Team Standing
In…](/pcd/carousels/pcdsliderimages/1204001706_docs.jpg)

Earn Your Free CME Credit With PCD

Browse our available CME articles and earn your credit for free today.

![CDC Colorectal Cancer Control Program](/pcd/carousels/pcdsliderimages/pcd-
carousel-graphic-colorectal-cancer-control-program_1.jpg)

CDC Colorectal Cancer Control Program Collection

PCD's latest collection features 6 articles that describe the evaluation of
CDC's 2009-2015 Colorectal Cancer Control Program, including its
implementation, outcomes, and costs.

![NAACP_Collection_2019](/pcd/carousels/pcdsliderimages/308202-A_NCCDPHP-Prog-
Eval-collection_985x515.jpg)

Read PCD's NCCDPHP Collection

This collection features 10 articles from CDC's National Center for Chronic
Disease Prevention and Health Promotion.

![Healthcare_Collection_2019](/pcd/carousels/pcdsliderimages/308199-A_Pop-
Health-collection_985x515.jpg)

PCD Collection Focuses on Population Health Improvements

This PCD collection features 16 articles that explore new partners, new tools,
and new strategies to address the chronic disease epidemic in the United
States.

![GIS_Collection_2019](/pcd/carousels/pcdsliderimages/308204-A_PCDCover_985x515.jpg)

PCD's GIS Collection

This collection of 24 articles highlights the use of geospatial data for
chronic disease prevention and treatment.

![Collections 2019
Cover](/pcd/carousels/pcdsliderimages/carousel_collection2019.jpg)

Collection: Good Health and Wellness in Indian Country

This PCD collection chronicles a 5-year journey of innovative CDC programs and
partnerships that build on a new sense of possibility in Indian Country.

## Volume 17

ISSN: 1545-1151

Just Released April 2nd 2020

                      * Trouble Sleeping and Depression Among US Women Aged 20 to 30 Years

Last Week's Articles

                      * Visualizing 50 Years of Cancer Mortality Rates Across the US at Multiple Geographic Levels Using a Synchronized Map and Graph Animation
                      * US Adults' Perceptions About the Harms of Nicotine in Electronic Vapor Products on the Adolescent Brain, United States, 2016-2017

Tweets by CDCChronic

> Preventing Chronic Disease - PCD

Page last reviewed: April 2, 2020

Content source: National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health
Promotion

home PCD

                      * View Current Volume
                      * Issue Archive
                      * About the Journalplus icon
                        * PCD Editor in Chief
                        * PCD Staff
                        * Associate Editors
                        * Editorial Board
                        * Statistics Review Committee
                        * Editorial Policy
                        * Year In Review
                      * Authorâs Cornerplus icon
                        * General Information
                        * Types of Articles
                        * Manuscript Requirements
                        * How to Submit an Inquiry
                        * How to Submit a Manuscript
                        * Top 20 Manuscript Problems
                      * For Peer Reviewersplus icon
                        * Call for Peer Reviewers
                        * General Guidelines
                        * Peer Review Checklists
                        * Review a Manuscript
                      * PCD Collections
                      * Announcements
                      * Medscape CME Activity
                      * FAQs
                      * Subscriptionsplus icon
                        * E-mail Privacy Policy
                        * PCD RSS Feed
                        * Content Syndication
                      * Contact Us

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

  
Email Address

What's this?

Submit

  

Connect with Us

                      * Subscribe to RSS
                      * PCD Sound Bites
                      * PCD on Facebook
                      * PubMed Central

![PCD Sound Bites](/pcd/images/PCD_Sound_Bites_Logo.jpg)

![PCD GIS Snapshots](/pcd/images/PCD_GIS_Snapshots_Logo.jpg)



Additional Resources

                      * Emerging Infectious Diseases Journal
                      * Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR)
                      * Vital Signs

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                      * About CDC
                      * Jobs
                      * Funding
                      * Policies
                      * File Viewers & Players

                      * Privacy
                      * FOIA
                      * No Fear Act
                      * OIG
                      * Nondiscrimination
                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * Youtube
                      * Instagram
  

                      * Syndicate
                      * CDC TV
                      * RSS
                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

