https://www.cdc.gov/od/science/index.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/od/science/index.htm    
                Description: Office of the Associate Director for Science (OADS) home page    
                Keywords: CDC,  Science,  Office of the Associate Director for Science (OADS),  Science Integrity,  Science Quality,  Scientific Integrity,  Scientific Quality,  data plan,  access to data,  access to scientific publications,  access to digital scientific data,  intramural and extramural research data, Science    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Office of Science (OS)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email
                      * Syndicate

# Office of the Associate Director for Science (OADS)

Minus

Related Pages

# Advancing Excellence & Integrity of CDC Science

#### The Office of the Associate Director for Science (OADS) provides
CDC/ATSDR with scientific vision, advice and leadership in promoting the
quality and integrity of CDC science, and is an advocate for the application
of science to solve important public health problems.

![WWT header image for OADS home page
accordion](/od/science/wewerethere/images/WWT_new_accordion.jpg)

### OADS presents "We Were There"

![Charles C. Shepard](/od/science/modules/science/images/OADS-landing-flex-
shepard-wide.jpg)

### Learn about the Charles C. Shepard Science Award

![Woman's hand holding ethics sign](/od/science/modules/science/images/OADS-
landing-flex-phethics-wide.jpg)

### CDC and Public Health Ethics

#####  **Did you know? OADS is an active participant in CDC 's effort to
improve ****health literacy.**  

globe icon

Overview

Learn about how the Office of the Associate Director for Science (OADS)
provides service and support to the CDC scientists as they work to protect
people's health and improve the quality of their lives

badge icon

Charles C. Shepard Science Award

Learn about the process to recognize and highlight excellence in scientific
achievement by CDC and ATSDR authors of outstanding scientific papers. This
annual event is the agency's primary recognition mechanism regarding CDC
science

people icon

Director's Corner

Meet the OADS leadership

tools icon

CDC Science Impact Framework (SIF)

Learn more about this framework designed for tracking CDC science and linking
its influence or impact on subsequent events and actions that ultimately lead
to improving health

Office of Science Quality

![Computer and glassess signifying person at
work](/od/science/modules/science/OSQ.jpg)

The Office of Science Quality (OSQ) was established within OADS to increase
the impact of CDC research and science by promoting standards and recommended
practices for scientific quality, relevance, credibility, transparency, and
utility within the agency and throughout the public health community

More

Office of Scientific Integrity

![Scientist at work](/od/science/modules/science/OSI.jpg)

The Office of Scientific Integrity (OSI) was established within OADS to ensure
that CDC science and research activities comply with various federal laws,
regulations, and policies

More

Office of Technology and Innovation

![The photo shows a culture plate of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus
aureus \(MRSA\), a type of bacteria that is resistant to several antibiotics.
CDC provides gold standard laboratory methods and isolates that support
development of new diagnostics for antibiotic resistance. CDC photo, James
Gathany.](/od/science/modules/science/mrsa-testing-technology.jpg)

Innovation occurs when ideas are put to use in a manner that improves the way
something works - whether that's a service, process, or product. The Office of
Technology and Innovation (OTI) was established within the Office of the
Associate Director for Science (OADS) to foster innovative science and support
the transition of results into practice by the most effective means.

More

References

                      * CDC Plan for Increasing Access to Scientific Publications and Digital Scientific Data Generated with CDC Funding pdf icon[PDF - 713K]

This plan describes the steps Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)
and the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) (referred to
as CDC throughout this document) are taking to maximize access to intramural
and extramural data

                      * CDC Guidance on Scientific Integrity pdf icon[PDF - 247K]

This document provides an overarching summary of the policies, activities, and
guiding principles that exist within Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention/Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (CDC/ATSDR-
henceforth referred to as CDC) in support of key areas of scientific integrity

                      * This guidance aligns with HHS departmental policies and principles on scientific integrity pdf icon[PDF - 100K]

ï»¿

Page last reviewed: July 6, 2018

Content source: ï»¿

home OS Home

                      * Overviewplus icon
                        * Directorâs Cornerplus icon
                          * Associate Director for Science
                          * Deputy Associate Director for Science
                          * Director, Office of Science Quality
                          * Director, Office of Scientific Integrity
                          * Director, Office of Technology and Innovation
                          * Management Officer
                        * Excellence in Science Committee
                        * Shepard Science Awardplus icon
                          * About
                          * History
                          * Winners
                          * Program
                      * Science Impactplus icon
                        * About the Science Impact Project
                        * Description of the Framework
                        * How the Framework Was Tested
                        * How and When to Use the Framework
                        * Application of the Framework
                        * Frequently Asked Questions
                        * Additional Resources
                      * Science Qualityplus icon
                        * Science Supportplus icon
                          * Information Quality
                          * Peer Review Agenda
                          * Policies
                        * Guidelines and Recommendations Activityplus icon
                          * Training
                        * Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers (PECASE)
                        * Contact Information
                      * Scientific Integrityplus icon
                        * Animal Care and Use in CDC Laboratory Research
                        * Rabies Research Protocol Violationplus icon
                          * CDC Leadership Statement
                        * Human Participant Protection in CDC Researchplus icon
                          * CDCâs Institutional Review Boards
                          * Scientific Ethics Training
                          * Regulatory and Ethical Codes
                        * Privacy and Confidentialityplus icon
                          * Privacy Legislation and Regulations
                          * Changes to Certificate of Confidentiality (CoC)
                          * Certificate of Confidentiality for CDC Funded Research
                          * Guidance on Certificates of Confidentiality for CDC Funded Research
                          * Suggested Consent Language Describing the CoC Protections
                          * Assurances of Confidentiality
                        * CDC Paperwork Reduction Act Compliance
                        * Public Health Ethicsplus icon
                          * Ethics Subcommittee of the ACD
                          * Ethics Subcommittee Documents
                          * Public Health Ethics Resources
                          * Public Health Ethics Training Materials
                      * Technology and Innovationplus icon
                        * Innovationplus icon
                          * CDC Innovation Fund (iFund)plus icon
                            * CDC iFund Project Spotlight 
                          * Open Innovation
                          * Staff
                          * Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Programplus icon
                            * Report Fraud, Waste and Abuse
                            * Success Stories
                          * Information Resources
                        * Technology Transferplus icon
                          * About Usplus icon
                            * Technology Transfer Process
                            * Staff
                          * Available Technologies for Licensing
                          * For CDC Researchersplus icon
                            * Invention Disclosure
                            * Collaboration Opportunities
                            * Forms and Agreements
                          * For Industryplus icon
                            * Collaborating with CDC
                            * Licensing CDC Technologies
                            * Available Technologies for Licensing
                            * Forms and Agreements
                          * Frequently Asked Questions
                          * Success Storiesplus icon
                            * Top Grossing Licenses
                            * Top Grossing Commercial Sales
                        * Resources
                        * Contact Us
                      * Grand Rounds
                      * We Were Thereplus icon
                        * HIV/AIDSplus icon
                          * Biographies
                        * Legionnairesâplus icon
                          * Biographies
                        * Folic Acidplus icon
                          * Biographies
                        * Polioplus icon
                          * Biographies
                        * _E. coli_ Â Â O157plus icon
                          * Biographies
                        * Toxic Shockplus icon
                          * Biographies
                        * Polyvinyl chlorideplus icon
                          * Biographies
                        * Hantavirusplus icon
                          * Biographies
                        * Popcorn Lung Diseaseplus icon
                          * Biographies
                        * Ebolaplus icon
                          * Biographies
                        * About We Were Thereplus icon
                          * Opening Video Background
                        * We Were There Blog

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                      * About CDC
                      * Jobs
                      * Funding
                      * Policies
                      * File Viewers & Players

                      * Privacy
                      * FOIA
                      * No Fear Act
                      * OIG
                      * Nondiscrimination
                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * Youtube
                      * Instagram
  

                      * Syndicate
                      * CDC TV
                      * RSS
                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

