https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/stories/othertypesofchds.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/stories/othertypesofchds.html    
                Description: Read these real stories from people living with congenital heart defects.    
                Keywords: CDC,  birth defects,  congenital heart defects,  heart defects,  pregnancy,  preconception care,  National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities,  developmental disabilities, Birth Defects    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Birth Defects

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

# Real Stories: Living with Other Types of Congenital Heart Defects

Minus

Related Pages

Congenital heart defects (CHDs) are present at birth and can affect the
structure of a baby's heart and the way it works. They can affect how blood
flows through the heart and out to the rest of the body. To learn what it's
like to live with these types of conditions or how families are affected, read
these real stories from people living with congenital heart defects.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Mary's Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Piper's Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Hannah's Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Isabella's Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Catherine's Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Missy's Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jefferson's Story

### Mary's Story--In Her Own Words

![Mary Rouzer](/ncbddd/birthdefects/stories/images/mary-rouzer.jpeg)

**Mary was born with multiple congenital heart defects. As a Doctor of Nursing
Practice, she wants to empower her patients to take an active role in their
health. Read her story below.**

I was born in 1991. My mom had a normal pregnancy, and I seemed to be a
healthy baby. My dad, a medical residency student at the time, anxious to hear
my heartbeat, heard a heart murmur and called a pediatric cardiologist. I was
diagnosed with hypoplastic right heart syndrome, atrial septal defect,
transposition of the great vessels, and isthmus coarctation of the aorta. This
combination of defects in one baby is incredibly rare.  I was admitted to the
neonatal intensive care unit (NICU), and at 9 days old, I had my first open
heart surgery. I would go on to have three more surgeries by the time I was 2
years old.

From ages 2 through 15 years, I remained relatively healthy. I had routine
checkups with my pediatric cardiologist that included regular echocardiograms
and electrocardiograms. I would sometimes have to wear a Holter monitor, a
device that measures and records the heart's activity, while enduring stress
tests. This was my normal.

When I was 15 years old, I learned I would need a pacemaker and defibrillator
because my heart rate was too slow, causing me to feel fatigued and out of
breath easily. Shortly after I turned 16 years old, I had surgery to place my
pacemaker and defibrillator in my abdomen. One month after surgery, I went to
my high school junior prom with my date, who would, years later, become my
husband.

Receiving a pacemaker/defibrillator as a teenager was frightening. I thought,
"I'm dying," because I only knew of older individuals having pacemakers.
Having a pacemaker restricted me from jumping on a trampoline, riding
rollercoasters, and riding horses, but these were things that I could live
without doing.

Due to the pacemaker/defibrillator, my doctors increased the number of
medications I was taking. Although my pacemaker was helping to regulate my
heartbeat, I was still having irregular heartbeats. I needed medication to
help my heart function properly.

The defibrillator was placed to help shock my heart back into rhythm if it
slowed down or stopped beating. I remember asking the nurse practitioner that
set up my pacemaker/defibrillator to describe the feeling of being shocked.
She told me, "like getting kicked by a donkey." I had never been kicked by a
donkey, and had no intention of experiencing it.

Unfortunately, I was shocked two separate times after they set up my
pacemaker/defibrillator. The first time was 2 months after having my
pacemaker/defibrillator placed. My settings were wrong, but this was no fault
of the doctors. Setting these devices is often trial and error. Every single
person is different, and they set the pacemaker/defibrillator for what a
person of your age and condition would typically use. This may not be what you
need. The second time I was shocked, I was home alone after attending nursing
school that day, and my device shocked me multiple times. I was able to call
911 and crawl to the door to let the paramedics in. This occurred the day
before my first day of nursing school clinical work, of which I was required
to attend. My dad drove me to the hospital because I wasn't allowed to drive
so soon after being shocked. When I walked in, the instructor looked at me as
if she saw a ghost. I eventually graduated, and went on to become a Doctor of
Nursing Practice (DNP).

Given my experiences, I understand what it's like to be a patient, which has
helped me as a nurse. I learned to become an advocate for my own health. I
want to empower my patients to take an active role in their health and become
advocates for themselves, too. I love educating people and spreading
awareness, and being a nurse practitioner allows me to do that.

I got married shortly after receiving my DNP. I met my husband when we were in
high school, so he has been through a lot with me. While we were dating, I
made the decision to have my tubes tied because pregnancy can be risky for
some women with heart defects. Before we got married, I wanted to make sure my
husband was okay with this decision. We both agreed that adoption or surrogacy
were options we were open to considering if we wanted to have children in the
future. For now, we have two lively and loveable dog-babies, Brindle and
Rogan.

### Piper's Story--Written by her dad, David

![Piper in the hospital as an
infant](/ncbddd/birthdefects/stories/images/Piper-500px.jpg)

**David 's daughter, Piper, was diagnosed with a ****congenital heart defect**
**(CHD) shortly after she was born. Read below about Piper 's first few weeks
of life and how David and his family support CHD awareness.**

Piper, our first child, was born on Independence Day. I'm very patriotic, so I
remember thinking what a great symbol this July 4th baby was going to be. My
wife, Jennifer, had a healthy pregnancy with no problems during the delivery.
Then, everything changed.

Piper was born blue. The doctor thought she just needed some oxygen, so we
relaxed thinking this was a fairly normal situation. However, after two hours
passed without seeing or holding our child, we began to wonder if something
was really wrong. When the doctor finally returned, he said her oxygen levels
were not getting better. He was worried about her heart, but the hospital
didn't have the right equipment to run the tests to check her heart. So, we
had to send Piper by ambulance to the major children's hospital in our state.
Along with Piper, I left Jennifer in the early evening on what seemed like the
longest ambulance ride in history--not because we were going slow, but because
our world was flipped upside-down.

At the children's hospital, the doctors were able to diagnose Piper with (TGA)
and several large ventricular septal defects (VSDs). TGA is a type of heart
defect where the two main blood vessels leading out of the heart are switched
in position. And VSDs are holes in the wall that separates the lower chambers
of the heart. Bottom line, Piper required open heart surgery to live.

In the meantime, Jennifer was still at the first hospital, in absolute shock.
Who wouldn't be? It's very scary. You're having a baby, there's something
wrong, and you're away from your spouse. She was finally able to check herself
out and arrived at the children's hospital in the middle of the night. We
slept on the loveseat of the waiting room that first night--the first of what
would become a stressful and sleep-deprived several weeks.

At the time, I didn't think that Piper was going to make it. Her surgery took
a grueling 14 hours. Afterwards, Piper's tiny body began to swell. The doctors
needed to open her chest to relieve the swelling. Piper was unrecognizable--
attached to what seemed like hundreds of tubes and cords.

We spent several weeks at the hospital. We showered and ate in the hospital
every day, worrying constantly. "What are we going to do?" "What does this
mean?"

At one point, Piper caught two infections that required her to be in an
isolation room for several weeks. We had seen many sick babies go into
isolation rooms, and most did not survive. That moment was my breaking point.
I tried to stay strong throughout the process and be strong for Jennifer. But
at that point, I broke. Two days later, though, our prayers were answered.
Piper started to turn around. During this entire time, Jennifer didn't get to
hold Piper. It's an incredibly tough and heartbreaking situation to live
through. But, about six weeks later, Piper had improved enough for us to take
her home.

As I started researching about CHDs, I realized that they are chronic,
lifelong conditions. It was really difficult to come to grips with that. I had
no clue what questions to ask or where to go for information. As my curiosity
turned into action, I partnered with another parent of a child with a CHD, and
we established an organization devoted to children with CHDs.

There are still a lot of unknowns about CHDs. Every parent has questions about
what to expect, who to turn to, and what the future holds. Patients like Piper
have a powerful voice, and together, we can greatly increase public awareness
of CHDs and those living with these conditions.

### Hannah's Story--Written by her mom, Leslie

![Hannah in the
hospital](/ncbddd/birthdefects/stories/images/Hannah-479px.jpg)

**Hannah was born with several** **critical congenital heart defects** **.
Hannah 's family is forever grateful for the three weeks they were able to
spend with her before she passed. Read their special story of Hannah below.**

My husband, Nick, and I were ecstatic when we learned that we were pregnant
with our first child last February. The excitement grew when we found out that
we were having identical twins, but it was short lived. The doctors diagnosed
our girls as Monoamniotic-Monochorionic, or "mono mono," meaning they shared
the same sac with no dividing membrane and the same placenta. This type of
pregnancy is extremely rare and very high risk, due to cord entanglement
issues. We were given a poor prognosis and told that 80 percent of people in
our situation would terminate the pregnancy. Nick and I plunged forward,
hoping and praying for the best for our babies.

Unfortunately the stress did not end there. At five months of pregnancy one of
our girls, Hannah, was diagnosed with heterotaxy syndrome causing several
complex congenital heart defects, two of which were known as total anomalous
pulmonary venous return (TAPVR) and pulmonary atresia. We began seeing a
pediatric cardiologist who informed us that Hannah's condition was very
precarious and would require a series of three open heart surgeries over the
course of the first five years of life, the first of which would most likely
be performed the day of birth. To complicate matters, Hannah would be
premature and underweight, as she and Elizabeth had to be delivered via
C-section at 32 weeks gestation in order to increase their chance of survival
due to their "mono mono" diagnosis. As a result, I had to spend the last two
months of my pregnancy on the bed rest at the hospital for daily fetal
monitoring.

Hannah and Elizabeth were born at three pounds nine ounces and three pounds
fifteen ounces, respectively. They were immediately whisked away and after
hours of echocardiograms, it was determined that it was in Hannah's best
interest to prolong surgery for several weeks in order to let her gain weight
and increase the chance of a successful surgery. Nick and I were cautiously
optimistic but painfully aware that a favorable outcome was not guaranteed.

Just three weeks later, Hannah underwent open heart surgery. After almost 12
hours of anguished waiting, we were told that the surgery had been a success
but that the next 48 to 72 hours were critical. Literally as we were preparing
to leave the hospital to go home that same night, Hannah's heart stopped
beating. The doctors were able to revive her and aggressively monitored her
condition overnight.

Early the next morning, Hannah passed in our arms. Her surgeon assured us that
we had done everything possible to save her but unfortunately her lungs could
not support her heart condition. We are saddened beyond belief at our loss,
but we believe Hannah is in a better place and we are comforted that she is no
longer in pain or suffering. She was a fighter until the end and we will
forever be grateful for the three weeks we were able to spend with our little
angel.

### Isabella's Story--Written by her mom, Melissa

![Isabella in her car
seat.](/ncbddd/birthdefects/stories/images/Isabella-400px.jpg)

**Isabella was born with a** **congenital heart defect** **.   When her
mother, Melissa, first learned of Isabella's heart defect during pregnancy,
she was devastated. But here Melissa shares how Isabella's condition has
taught her family how to really appreciate what they have and the time they
have together.  Read more of Isabella's story below.**

Isabella is your typical child with lots of spunk and personality! She loves
playing outside with her older brother and playing with her many baby dolls,
including listening to their "heart." She enjoys bubbles, taking baths, and
spaghetti!

We first found out our daughter, Isabella, had a congenital heart defect at 19
weeks of pregnancy. We went in for our ultrasound to find out if we were
having a boy or a girl, and we were thrilled to find out we were having a
girl!

It seems like so long ago, but remembering back to that day, the ultrasound
tech hovered over her heart during the ultrasound, and our excitement quickly
came to a halt. Our fear was confirmed a few moments later by our OB-GYN, and
it felt as if our world was crashing down. Our daughter had a heart defect.
Our family had no history of heart defects. Why was this happening to us? We
were devastated. Up until this point, I had never heard of infants being born
with half a heart. Who could even survive that? We felt defeated, emotionally
exhausted, worried, and terrified. We were scared she wouldn't make it.

The hardest thing I have ever had to do is watch my child go through open
heart surgery. Thankfully, Isabella has done very well with her condition. Her
condition is very rare and is known as "Holmes Heart" (basically, she has half
of a functioning heart). There have been bumps along the way, but with each
bump, it has brought us closer together as a family. Being away from my other
child multiple times while staying in the hospital is hard, along with the
fear that comes with these surgeries. Her brother is several years older than
she is, so he has a pretty good understanding but is still scared for her
life. He is very protective over her. It has also impacted us financially and
emotionally. On a positive note, it has made us reach out to strengthen our
Faith. I believe that is the only thing that has gotten us through these past
three years. I can truly say we now live our lives to the fullest every day.
This experience has taught us how to really appreciate what we have and the
time we have together.

I would like other parents facing this unknown world of heart defects to know
that there is hope. Many people in the medical profession are making huge
strides in regards to treatment for heart defects. Researchers are working on
amazing advances to allow these children to live a full and prosperous life.
There is support available to help you along this journey. Help spread the
word about heart defects and how amazing these kids are! Our daughter,
Isabella, is very special and inspires me daily!

### Catherine's Story--In her own words

![Catherine as an infant in the
hospital](/ncbddd/birthdefects/stories/images/Catherine-baby-
hospital-500px.jpg)

**Catherine was born with** **pulmonary atresia** **, but her heart defect
never stopped her from reaching her goals in life. Having a heart defect gives
her a platform to inspire and help others who have a similar condition. Read
her story below.**

When I was born, my parents and doctors knew immediately that something was
wrong. I was transferred to the local children's hospital and after several
procedures, I was diagnosed with pulmonary atresia, a type of congenital heart
defect (CHD). I had three open heart surgeries in the first 18 months of my
life. I even spent my first Christmas in the children's hospital. These first
surgeries were not easy. I had complications with each one. However, the
wonderful care that I received carried me through those difficult times.

Growing up, my parents never allowed my heart condition to get in the way of
me doing any activity. I have an identical twin sister who doesn't have a CHD,
and they treated us just the same. I played competitive soccer and attended
some of the nation's best tournaments. Every year, I had a check-up with my
cardiologist, and my mom would make it a fun day away from school. I stayed
with my pediatric cardiologist until I was 21 years old.

![Catherine running the Peachtree Road
race](/ncbddd/birthdefects/stories/images/Catherine-Peachtree-Road-
Race-345px.jpg)

I was able to attend my dream college and was also a recipient of a
scholarship specifically for students with a CHD. Since graduating college, I
am now a special education teacher and I have served on many committees that
foster mentor relationships between those with special needs and other
students. I also present at conferences related to special education.

During the winter of 2012, I learned that my pulmonary valve would have to be
replaced. During that time, I was able to get in the best shape of my life,
and I ran a 10-kilometer race just two months before my surgery. In June of
2012, I had my fourth open heart surgery, where I was given a bovine pulmonary
valve. Since that surgery, I have fully recovered and today I continue my
passion of teaching students with special needs.

I graduated with my master's degree in mild and moderate intellectual
disabilities. I also married my husband, Max. I know that having a CHD gives
me a wonderful platform to help others with the same condition. I look forward
to more opportunities where I can continue to help and inspire others.

### Missy's Story--In her own words

![Missy early after surgery and later after
surgery](/ncbddd/birthdefects/stories/images/Missy-500px.jpg)

**Ongoing, appropriate medical care can help children and adults with a
congenital heart defect (CHD) live as healthy as possible. Missy was born with
a CHD. Read below to learn how her commitment to lifelong care for her CHD has
helped her live a healthy life.**

My name is Missy, and I'm a congenital heart defect (CHD) survivor. I was born
with aortic stenosis, bicuspid valve. This means that my aortic valve, the
heart valve that controls blood flow from my heart to my aorta, was narrow and
only had two flaps, instead of the normal three flaps. This condition affected
the way blood flowed out from my heart to the rest of my body.

Although my mother knew I had a CHD since I was a baby, I was not aware that I
had any heart condition until 6th grade when I was participating in physical
education class. I suddenly got dizzy and almost passed out. It was then that
my cardiac care began. My first procedure was having a heart catheter put in
place to help with the blood flow through my heart.  Shortly after I turned
12-years-old, I had open heart surgery to repair my aortic valve. Throughout
the rest of my adolescence, I had regular checkups with my cardiologist (my
heart doctor).

When I was nearly 20-years-old, I had my second open heart surgery--this time,
it was to replace my aortic valve. I was given the option of a pig valve or a
human valve from a cadaver, which was a new procedure in the late 1980's. The
latest research had indicated that the human valve would hold up better during
pregnancies and potentially last longer than the pig valve option. Therefore,
I chose to have the human valve replacement. The surgery went well. Shortly
afterwards, I began a career that I loved and met my husband. I had two
healthy pregnancies resulting in two healthy children.

When my youngest was 3-years-old, I had my third open heart surgery to replace
the aortic valve again. This time, a mechanical valve was placed in my heart.
Again, I did well with this procedure. I had to start taking some medication
to help me, but overall, I led a normal, healthy life, and I felt good.

Then, on one of my annual cardiac checkups, my doctor found I had so much scar
tissue buildup in my mechanical valve that it was not working. I had no
symptoms. I was only diagnosed because I kept my annual visit to see my
cardiologist. Shortly afterwards, I had my 4th and hopefully final surgery to
replace that valve again.

My experience underscores the importance of continued care for all CHD
patients. CHDs are never permanently fixed. Continued follow up care is
critical.

### Jefferson's Story--Written by his dad, Joseph

![Jefferson in the
hospital](/ncbddd/birthdefects/stories/images/Jefferson1-400px.jpg)

**Jefferson was born with a** **congenital heart defect** **called** **. His
father, Joseph, recounts the story of Jefferson 's birth and early care. Read
this story and Joseph's advice for other dads below.**

My son, Jefferson, was born blue. We didn't know ahead of time that he had a
heart defect, so we were quite surprised during delivery. As the medical team
attended to him, I remember them saying, "there's nothing we can do." My
stomach dropped. Then, they quickly decided he needed to be rushed to the
local children's hospital. It was quite a whirlwind. I had to leave my wife at
the original hospital and go with my son to the children's hospital, where
doctors discovered he had a congenital heart defect called "transposition of
the great arteries". This means that his main arteries (aorta and pulmonary)
leading out of his heart were switched, and he would need open-heart surgery
to repair them.

Looking back, I think one of the hardest things I had to do at the time was to
leave my wife at the hospital. She had some complications from delivery and
had to stay there for a little while longer. Unfortunately, it was hard to
even get updates on my wife's condition, because I had bad cell phone
reception where I was waiting at the children's hospital. Honestly, I felt
really guilty for not being able to support my wife during this time. I'm
grateful her sister was there to stay with her and comfort her. Eventually I
came to realize that the best way to be there for my wife was to be there for
our son. I didn't leave Jefferson's side for the first five days of his life,
and I think that helped give her some peace of mind.

![Jefferson sitting in the grass holding a
football.](/ncbddd/birthdefects/stories/images/Jefferson2-500px.jpg)

Another challenge for me was having to relay everything the doctors were
telling me about Jefferson's condition back to my wife. I was a college
football coach. I didn't speak the medical language. At times, I didn't always
feel valued as the father, because the medical team always wanted to speak to
the mother. If I could give advice to other dads who are in the same position,
I would say to be persistent. Keep asking questions, especially when you feel
like you aren't getting all the information. Another bit of advice is to take
care of yourself. Remember to eat. Remember to sleep. You need to be at your
best to be the best for your child.

Jefferson had one open-heart surgery four weeks after he was born, and he's
been doing well ever since. He's such a light in our lives. He's positive,
always smiling, and just lights up a room.

Page last reviewed: December 5, 2019

Content source: ï»¿ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Birth Defects Homepage

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * What are Birth Defects?plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Preventing Birth Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 5 Ways to Lower the Risk of Neural Tube Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Specific Birth Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Anophthalmia / Microphthalmia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Anotia / Microtia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cleft Lip / Cleft Palate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Congenital Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Atrial Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Atrioventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Coarctation of the Aorta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * D-Transposition of the Great Arteries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pulmonary Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tetralogy of Fallot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Return
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tricuspid Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Truncus Arteriosus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Ventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Craniosynostosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Diaphragmatic Hernia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Down Syndromeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data and Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Growth Charts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Esophageal Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Gastroschisis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Hypospadias
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Microcephaly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Neural tube defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Anencephaly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Encephalocele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Spina Bifida
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Omphalocele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Upper and Lower Limb Reduction Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Research & Trackingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * MACDP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * State-based Trackingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Arizona
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Colorado
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Florida
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Illinois
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Kentucky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Michigan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Minnesota
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * New Jersey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Oklahoma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Oregon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Puerto Rico
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Rhode Island
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Texas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Utah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * CBDRPplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * NBDPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * BD-STEPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Research Tools and Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Articles & Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Down Syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Healthy Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Folic Acid and Birth Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Pregnant? Donât Smoke!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * World Birth Defects Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Materials & Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Coloring Pages
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Folic Acid and You
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Prevent to Protect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Make a PACT for Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Birth Defects are Common, Costly, and Critical
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Videos & Podcasts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Buttonsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Best for You. Best for Baby.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Prevent to Protect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * PACT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Quiz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * BD Prevention Monthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Social Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Real Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cleft Lip and Palate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Clubfoot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Craniosynostosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Down Syndromeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Meganâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Calebâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Bryton and Fenixâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Keatonâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Markâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Eye Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Fetal Alcohol Syndrome Disorders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Gastroschisis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Coarctation of the Aorta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Hypoplastic left heart syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tetralogy of Fallot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Other types of heart defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Omphalocele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Spina Bifidaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Randi, Karen, & Robert
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nikiaâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Dailyâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Eliâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Elleyâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Katieâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zacharyâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Bethâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Henryâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Reneeâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Clarkâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Anifaâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Share Your Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Information for Healthcare Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Information for Familiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Finding Support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Care Providerâs Role
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Links to Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * About CDCâs Work

![Zika and Pregnancy Button](/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/button-zika-
preg-180px.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

