https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/66/wr/mm6608a4.htm?s_cid=mm6608a4_wLink: https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/66/wr/mm6608a4.htm?s_cid=mm6608a4_w    
                Description: CDC report provides baseline reference for birth defects observed with Zika virus.    
                Keywords: CDC,  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,  Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report,  MMWR,  Zika,  Zika Virus,  Zika Virus and Birth Defects,  Zika Virus Infection and Birth Defects,  Congenital Zika Virus Infection and Birth Defects,  U.S. Zika Pregnancy Registry,  USZPR, Morbidity &amp; Mortality Weekly Report    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report ( _MMWR_ )

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

# Baseline Prevalence of Birth Defects Associated with Congenital Zika Virus
Infection â Massachusetts, North Carolina, and Atlanta, Georgia, 2013â2014

_Weekly_ / March 3, 2017 / 66(8);219â222

Minus

Related Pages

Janet D. Cragan, MD1; Cara T. Mai, DrPH1; Emily E. Petersen, MD2; Rebecca F.
Liberman, MPH3; Nina E. Forestieri, MPH4; Alissa C. Stevens, MPH5; Augustina
Delaney, PhD1; April L. Dawson, MPH1; Sascha R. Ellington, MSPH2; Carrie K.
Shapiro-Mendoza, PhD2; Julie E. Dunn, PhD3; Cathleen A. Higgins3; Robert E.
Meyer, PhD4; Tonya Williams, PhD5; Kara N.D. Polen, MPH1; Kim Newsome, MPH1;
Megan Reynolds, MPH1; Jennifer Isenburg, MSPH1; Suzanne M. Gilboa, PhD1; Dana
M. Meaney-Delman, MD6; Cynthia A. Moore, MD, PhD1; Coleen A. Boyle, PhD7;
Margaret A. Honein, PhD1 (View author affiliations)

View suggested citation

###  **Summary**

**What is already known about this topic?**

Zika virus infection causes serious brain abnormalities; however, the birth
defects observed are not unique to congenital Zika virus infection, and the
full range of effects of congenital Zika infection is not known.

**What is added by this report?**

CDC used data from population-based birth defects surveillance programs in
Massachusetts, North Carolina, and Atlanta, Georgia, to retrospectively assess
the prevalence of birth defects during 2013-2014 that met the surveillance
case definition for birth defects potentially related to Zika virus infection,
before introduction of Zika virus into the United States. After introduction
of Zika virus, the proportion of infants and fetuses with birth defects born
to mothers with laboratory evidence of possible Zika infection reported by the
US Zika Pregnancy Registry during January 15-September 22, 2016, was
approximately 20 times higher than the prevalence of potentially Zika-related
birth defects among pregnancies during the pre-Zika years.

**What are the implications for public health practice?**

Data on birth defects in the pre-Zika years serve as benchmarks to direct
rapid ascertainment and reporting of birth defects potentially related to Zika
virus infection. The higher proportion of these defects among pregnancies with
laboratory evidence of possible Zika virus infection supports the relationship
between congenital Zika virus infection and birth defects.

Article Metrics

##### Altmetric:

##### Citations:

##### Views:

_Views equals page views plus PDF downloads_

Metric Details

**Table**

 **References**

Related Materials

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * pdf icon [PDF]

Zika virus infection during pregnancy can cause serious brain abnormalities,
but the full range of adverse outcomes is unknown ( _1_ ). To better
understand the impact of birth defects resulting from Zika virus infection,
the CDC surveillance case definition established in 2016 for birth defects
potentially related to Zika virus infection* ( _2_ ) was retrospectively
applied to population-based birth defects surveillance data collected during
2013-2014 in three areas before the introduction of Zika virus (the pre-Zika
years) into the World Health Organization's Region of the Americas (Americas)
( _3_ ). These data, from Massachusetts (2013), North Carolina (2013), and
Atlanta, Georgia (2013-2014), included 747 infants and fetuses with one or
more of the birth defects meeting the case definition (pre-Zika prevalence =
2.86 per 1,000 live births). Brain abnormalities or microcephaly were the most
frequently recorded (1.50 per 1,000), followed by neural tube defects and
other early brain malformations† (0.88), eye abnormalities without mention of
a brain abnormality (0.31), and other consequences of central nervous system
(CNS) dysfunction without mention of brain or eye abnormalities (0.17). During
January 15-September 22, 2016, the U.S. Zika Pregnancy Registry (USZPR)
reported 26 infants and fetuses with these same defects among 442 completed
pregnancies (58.8 per 1,000) born to mothers with laboratory evidence of
possible Zika virus infection during pregnancy ( _2_ ). Although the
ascertainment methods differed, this finding was approximately 20 times higher
than the proportion of one or more of the same birth defects among pregnancies
during the pre-Zika years. These data demonstrate the importance of
population-based surveillance for interpreting data about birth defects
potentially related to Zika virus infection.

Statewide data from birth defects surveillance programs in Massachusetts and
North Carolina for 2013 and from a surveillance program in three counties in
metropolitan Atlanta, Georgia, for 2013-2014 were chosen for analysis because
these programs conducted population-based surveillance for all types of birth
defects, used active multisource case-finding, and were rapidly able to
provide individual-level data with sufficient detail to apply all inclusion
and exclusion criteria ( _4_ ). Trained staff members in these surveillance
programs routinely reviewed the medical records of infants and fetuses with
birth defects and abstracted information about those defects, related
diagnostic procedures, and demographic and pregnancy information. Included
were all infants and fetuses who were identified through surveillance with a
birth defect characterized by CDC subject matter experts as being consistent
with those observed in cases of congenital Zika virus infection ( _2_ ).
Additional data collected included the pregnancy outcome (live birth or
pregnancy loss), maternal age, gestational age at delivery, and verbatim
clinical descriptions of all birth defects, including genetic abnormalities.
These verbatim descriptions were reviewed by CDC subject matter experts to
verify the case definition and categorization. The earliest age that a birth
defect meeting the definition was noted (i.e., prenatally, ≤28 days after
delivery, 29 days to <3 months after delivery, ≥3 to <6 months after delivery,
and ≥6 months after delivery) was available for data from Massachusetts and
Atlanta.

Infants or fetuses with birth defects were aggregated into four mutually
exclusive categories of defects characterized by CDC subject matter experts as
being consistent with those observed with congenital Zika virus infection: 1)
brain abnormalities or microcephaly (head circumference at delivery <3rd
percentile for sex and gestational age) ( _5_ ); 2) neural tube defects and
other early brain malformations; 3) eye abnormalities without mention of a
brain abnormality included in the first two categories; and 4) other
consequences of CNS dysfunction, specifically joint contractures and
congenital sensorineural deafness, without mention of brain or eye
abnormalities included in another category. Baseline prevalence per 1,000 live
births ( _6_ ) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were estimated using Poisson
regression.

The three birth defects surveillance programs identified 747 infants and
fetuses during 2013 (North Carolina and Massachusetts) and 2013-2014 (Atlanta)
with one or more defects that met the 2016 CDC Zika surveillance case
definition (2.86 per 1,000 live births [CI = 2.65-3.07]) (Table). Brain
abnormalities or microcephaly accounted for the largest number (392 [52%]) and
highest prevalence (1.50 per 1,000), followed by neural tube defects and other
early brain malformations (229 [31%]; 0.88). Eye abnormalities without mention
of a brain abnormality (81 [11%]; 0.31) and consequences of CNS dysfunction
without mention of brain or eye abnormalities (45 [6%]; 0.17) were less
frequent. Pregnancy losses (48%) and preterm delivery (<37 weeks' gestation)
(66%) occurred most frequently with neural tube defects and other early brain
malformations. In contrast, all infants with eye abnormalities without mention
of a brain abnormality were liveborn.

In general, the distribution by maternal age was similar across birth defect
categories. Among 410 (55%) infants or fetuses with information on the
earliest age a birth defect was recorded, 371 (90%) had evidence of a birth
defect meeting the Zika definition before age 3 months. More than half of
those with brain abnormalities or microcephaly or with neural tube defects and
other early brain malformations had evidence of these defects noted prenatally
(55% and 89%, respectively).

Top

##  Discussion

A congenital Zika syndrome phenotype has been described ( _7_ ); however, the
birth defects observed are not unique to congenital Zika virus infection, and
the full range of effects of congenital Zika infection is not known. The data
in this report provide a baseline reference for the prevalence of defects
observed with congenital Zika virus infection in the pre-Zika years and
demonstrate the importance of data on birth defects prevalence in providing a
context within which to assess the impact of teratogenic exposures such as
Zika virus infection. Recently published data from the USZPR reported 26
infants and fetuses with these same birth defects among 442 completed
pregnancies with laboratory evidence of Zika virus infection during a 9-month
period in 2016. This proportion (58.8 per 1,000) is approximately 20 times
higher than the prevalence (2.86 per 1,000) from the three population-based
birth defects surveillance programs during the pre-Zika years. In addition, of
the 26 USZPR infants and fetuses, 22 had a brain abnormality or microcephaly (
_2_ ). This proportion (49.8 per 1,000; CI = 33.1-74.8) is approximately 33
times higher than the prevalence (1.5 per 1,000) among pregnancies in the pre-
Zika years.

A recently published report from New York took a somewhat different approach
to establishing a pre-Zika baseline for congenital birth defects. It examined
diagnoses of microcephaly, but not other defects, for the period 2013-2015 and
found that, before evidence of importation of Zika virus infections, the
overall prevalence of microcephaly in New York was 7.4 per 10,000 live births
(0.74 per 1,000), and the prevalence of severe congenital microcephaly
(newborn head circumference <3rd percentile for sex and gestational age) was
4.2 per 10,000 (0.42 per 1,000) ( _8_ ).

The findings in this report are subject to at least six limitations. First,
population-based surveillance programs strive to ascertain the prevalence of
birth defects among all members of a specified population. In contrast, the
aim of USZPR is to estimate the proportion of birth defects among pregnancies
with laboratory evidence of possible Zika virus infection, a specific subgroup
of the general population ( _2_ ). This could lead to selection bias with
USZPR if, for example, pregnancies with fetal abnormalities detected
prenatally were more likely to be tested for Zika virus and reported. Second,
birth defects surveillance programs identify diagnoses among infants and
fetuses mostly through review of administrative records, often at inpatient
facilities. Although these programs use multisource ascertainment, some birth
defects could be missed if they were prenatally diagnosed or if infants were
delivered at sites outside of the usual ascertainment sources, if infants were
evaluated solely in outpatient settings, or if some birth defect diagnoses did
not receive an administrative code. In contrast, USZPR receives reports of
pregnant women with laboratory evidence of possible Zika virus infection and
resulting fetal and infant outcomes. The prospective nature of this
ascertainment and direct follow-up of individual reported pregnancies could
result in closer scrutiny of the outcomes and more frequent and detailed
detection of abnormalities than is typical with population-based birth defects
surveillance programs. Third, data from these three birth defects surveillance
programs might not be generalizable to the United States. The USZPR-published
data included reports from any of the U.S states and the District of Columbia.
Also, it is possible that some pregnancies with Zika virus infection were
present in the birth defects surveillance populations during the pre-Zika
years as a result of travel to areas with Zika virus outside the Americas.
Fourth, birth defects surveillance programs traditionally do not ascertain
diagnoses from settings where congenital deafness is diagnosed; therefore,
these data likely do not include the majority of infants with congenital
sensorineural deafness. Fifth, published data from USZPR on the proportion of
infants and fetuses with other types of birth defects that are not thought to
result from congenital Zika virus infection are not available, making it
impossible to assess differences in the frequency of other birth defects.
Finally, published data from USZPR include many pregnancies with unspecified
flavivirus infections, and thus the estimates of the proportion with birth
defects potentially related to Zika virus infection might underestimate the
actual Zika impact, given that some included pregnant women likely had other
flavivirus infections, increasing the size of the denominator.

The birth defects surveillance data in this report were compiled from a period
before introduction of Zika virus in the Americas, using the CDC surveillance
case definition of birth defects potentially related to Zika virus infection;
this is the same case definition adopted by USZPR. The higher proportion of
these defects among pregnancies with laboratory evidence of Zika infection in
USZPR supports the relationship between congenital Zika virus infection and
these birth defects ( _1_ , _2_ ). These data demonstrate the critical
contribution of population-based birth defects surveillance to understanding
the impact of Zika virus infection during pregnancy. In 2016, CDC provided
funding for 45 local, state, and territorial health departments to conduct
rapid population-based surveillance for defects potentially related to Zika
virus infection, which will provide essential data to monitor the impact of
Zika virus infection in the United States.

Top

Corresponding author: Janet D. Cragan, eocbirthdef@cdc.gov, 404-639-3286.

Top

* * *

1Division of Congenital and Developmental Disorders, National Center on Birth
Defects and Developmental Disabilities, CDC; 2Division of Reproductive Health,
National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, CDC;
3Center for Birth Defects Research and Prevention, Massachusetts Department of
Public Health; 4Birth Defects Monitoring Program, North Carolina Department of
Health and Human Services; 5Division of Human Development and Disability,
National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities, CDC; 6Office
of the Director, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Diseases, CDC;
7Office of the Director, National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, CDC.

Top

  

* The Zika surveillance case definition covers all birth defects that have been reported as potentially related to Zika virus infection and includes brain abnormalities such as microcephaly, intracranial calcifications, fetal brain disruption sequence, abnormal cortical formation, and porencephaly, among others; neural tube defects and other early brain malformations, such as anencephaly, spina bifida, encephalocele, and holoprosencephaly; eye abnormalities, such as microphthalmia/anophthalmia, cataracts, chorioretinal and optic nerve abnormalities, among others; and consequences of central nervous system dysfunction, such as joint contractures and congenital sensorineural deafness.

† Neural tube defects and other early brain malformations are included as
biologically plausible birth defects; however, they have been reported much
less frequently with Zika virus infection than defects in the other
categories.

Top

##  References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1. Rasmussen SA, Jamieson DJ, Honein MA, Petersen LR. Zika virus and birth defects--reviewing the evidence for causality. N Engl J Med 2016;374:1981-7\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2. Honein MA, Dawson AL, Petersen EE, et al. Birth defects among fetuses and infants of US women with evidence of possible Zika virus infection during pregnancy. JAMA 2017;317:59-68\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3. Schuler-Faccini L, Ribeiro EM, Feitosa IML, et al. Possible association between Zika virus infection and microcephaly--Brazil, 2015. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2016;65:59-62\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4. Mai CT, Correa A, Kirby RS, Rosenberg D, Petros M, Fagen MC. Assessing the practices of population-based birth defects surveillance programs using the CDC Strategic Framework, 2012. Public Health Rep 2015;130:722-30\. PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5. International Fetal and Newborn Growth Consortium for the 21st Century (INTERGROWTH-21st). Standards for newborns and references for very preterm infants. Oxford, United Kingdom: International Fetal and Newborn Growth Consortium for the 21st Century; 2017. https://intergrowth21.tghn.org/external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6. Mason CA, Kirby RS, Sever LE, Langlois PH. Prevalence is the preferred measure of frequency of birth defects. Birth Defects Res A Clin Mol Teratol 2005;73:690-2\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7. Moore CA, Staples JE, Dobyns WB, et al. Characterizing the pattern of anomalies in congenital Zika syndrome for pediatric clinicians. JAMA Pediatr 2016. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              8. Graham KA, Fox DJ, Talati A, et al. Prevalence and clinical attributes of congenital microcephaly--New York, 2013-2015\. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2017;66:125-9\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon

Top

#####  ![Return to your place in the
text](//www.cdc.gov/images/arrow_up.gif)**TABLE**. **Reports of birth defects
potentially related to congenital Zika virus infection* collected during a
pre-Zika period, by selected characteristics -- Massachusetts, North Carolina,
and Atlanta, Georgia, 2013-2014†**  

**TABLE**. **Reports of birth defects potentially related to congenital Zika
virus infection* collected during a pre-Zika period, by selected
characteristics -- Massachusetts, North Carolina, and Atlanta, Georgia,
2013-2014†**  
Characteristic | Brain abnormalities or microcephaly (%) | NTDs and other
early brain malformations (%) | Eye abnormalities (%) | Other consequences of
CNS dysfunction (%) | Total  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
**No. of infants or fetuses (N = 747)** | 392 (100) | 229 (100) | 81 (100) |
45 (100) | **747**  
**Pregnancy outcome**  
Live birth | 349 (89) | 119 (52) | 81 (100) | 43 (96) | **592**  
Pregnancy loss§ | 43 (11) | 109 (48) | 0 (--) | 2 (4) | **154**  
**Gestational age at delivery (wks)**  
<32 | 68 (17) | 114 (50) | 6 (8) | 7 (16) | **195**  
32-36 | 80 (20) | 37 (16) | 18 (22) | 9 (20) | **144**  
37-41 | 243 (62) | 76 (33) | 56 (69) | 29 (64) | **404**  
≥42 | 1 (<1) | 2 (1) | 1 (1) | 0 (--) | **4**  
**Maternal age at delivery (yrs)**  
<25 | 127 (32) | 49 (22) | 15 (18) | 15 (33) | **206**  
25-34 | 178 (45) | 122 (54) | 42 (52) | 21 (47) | **363**  
≥35 | 87 (22) | 56 (25) | 24 (30) | 9 (20) | **176**  
**Earliest age birth defect was noted (n = 410) ¶**  
Prenatally | 116 (55) | 104 (89) | 4 (7) | 5 (18) | **229**  
≤28 days of delivery | 58 (27) | 9 (8) | 29 (54) | 19 (70) | **115**  
29 days to <3 months | 13 (6) | 3 (3) | 10 (18) | 1 (4) | **27**  
3 months to <6 months | 10 (5) | 1 (1) | 3 (6) | 2 (7) | **16**  
≥6 months | 15 (7) | 0 (--) | 8 (15) | 0 (--) | **23**  
**Fetuses/Infants with defects per 1,000 live births (95% CI)** | 1.50
(1.35-1.65) | 0.88 (0.77-1.00) | 0.31 (0.25-0.38) | 0.17 (0.13-0.23) | **2.86
(2.65 -3.07)**  
  
**Abbreviations:** CNS = central nervous system; CI = confidence interval; NTD
= neural tube defect.  
* Case reports were aggregated into four mutually exclusive defect categories: 1) brain abnormalities or microcephaly (defined as head circumference at delivery <3rd percentile for sex and gestational age); 2) NTDs and other early brain malformations (these are included as biologically plausible but have been reported much less frequently with Zika virus infection than those in category 1); 3) eye abnormalities (without mention of a brain abnormality in categories 1 or 2); and 4) other consequences of CNS dysfunction, specifically joint contractures and congenital sensorineural deafness, without mention of brain or eye abnormalities included in any other category.  
† Data from Massachusetts (2013), North Carolina (2013), and three counties in
metropolitan Atlanta, Georgia, (2013-2014). Total live birth population for
the three areas = 261,629.  
§ Includes stillbirths ≥20 weeks gestation, elective terminations after
prenatal diagnosis at any gestational age and, in Massachusetts, spontaneous
pregnancy losses at <20 weeks and <350 g.  
¶ The earliest age when a birth defect meeting the 2016 CDC Zika surveillance
case definition was first noted in the medical record was only available for
410 cases from Massachusetts and metropolitan Atlanta, Georgia.

Top

  

 **Suggested citation for this article:** Cragan JD, Mai CT, Petersen EE, et
al. Baseline Prevalence of Birth Defects Associated with Congenital Zika Virus
Infection -- Massachusetts, North Carolina, and Atlanta, Georgia, 2013-2014\.
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2017;66:219-222\. DOI:
http://dx.doi.org/10.15585/mmwr.mm6608a4external icon.

_MMWR_ and _Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report_ are service marks of the
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.  
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does
not imply endorsement by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.  
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to
_MMWR_ readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these
organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services. CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these
sites. URL addresses listed in _MMWR_ were current as of the date of
publication.

All HTML versions of _MMWR_ articles are generated from final proofs through
an automated process. This conversion might result in character translation or
format errors in the HTML version. Users are referred to the electronic PDF
version (https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr) and/or the original _MMWR_ paper copy for
printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.

Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to
mmwrq@cdc.gov.

View Page In:pdf icon

Page last reviewed: August 28, 2017

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home _MMWR_

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Early Release
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Publicationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Weekly Reportplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Past Volumes (1982-2019)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Recommendations and Reportsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Past Volumes (1990-2019)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Surveillance Summariesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Past Volumes (1983-2019)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Supplementsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Past Volumes (1985-2015)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Notifiable Infectious Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Notifiable Noninfectious Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * For Authors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About Â _MMWR_ plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Staff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Editorial Board
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Subscriptionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * _MMWR_ Paper Subscription
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Free Continuing Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Additional Â _MMWR_ Â Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Visual Abstracts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Contact Us

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

