https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/buttons.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/buttons.html    
                Description: Buttons created by CDC to help increase birth defects awareness. Help by posting these to your website, blog, or social media accounts.    
                Keywords: CDC,  birth defects,  Down Syndrome,  heart defects,  pregnancy,  preconception care,  National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities,  developmental disabilities,  birth defects research, Birth Defects    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Birth Defects

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

# Web Buttons about Birth Defects and Prevention

Minus

Related Pages

CDC has created buttons to help increase awareness of birth defects. You can
help by posting a button to your website, blog, or social networking site
(e.g., Facebook page).

![Collage of ](/ncbddd/birthdefects/buttons/best-for/best-for-collage.gif)

##### Best for You. Best for Your Baby.

See available buttons and download them here »

* * *

![Prevent to Protect Button
collage](/ncbddd/birthdefects/buttons/prevent2protect/prevent2protect-buttons-
collage.png)

##### Prevent to Protect

See available buttons and download them here »

* * *



![PACT buttons collage: Make a PACT to get healthy before and during pregnancy
](/ncbddd/birthdefects/buttons/pact/PACT-buttons-collage.jpg)

##### Make a **PACT** for prevention

See available sizes and download them here »

* * *



![1 in every 33 babies is born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce
that risk. Learn more about prevention, detection, treatement and living with
birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects.](/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_03_200x200.jpg)

##### 1 in every 33 babies

Available in the following sizes:  
(Select a size below to get the code)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 120×240
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 150×125
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 180×150
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 200×200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 300×250
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 355×135
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 580×580
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 600×600

* * *

![Every 4.5 minutes a baby is born with a birth defect. We want to help you
reduce that risk. Learn more about prevention, detection, treatment and living
with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects](/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/birth_defects_prevention_month_buttons_02_200x200.jpg)

##### Every 4.5 minutes

Available in the following sizes:  
(Select a size below to get the code)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 120×240
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 150×125
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 180×150
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 200×200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 300×250
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 355×135
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 580×580
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 600×600

* * *



![Birth defects affect us all. What effect will you have on birth defects?
Learn more about birth defects visit
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects](/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_01_200x200.jpg)

##### Birth defects affect us all

Available in the following sizes:  
(Select a size below to get the code)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 120×240
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 150×125
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 180×150
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 200×200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 300×250
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 355×135
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 580×580
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 600×600

* * *



![¡Cada 4 minutos y medio nace un bebé con un defecto congénito! Deseamos
ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo. Infórmese sobre en
www.cdc.gov/defectos](/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_01_200x200.jpg)

##### Every 4.5 minutes (in Spanish)

Available in the following sizes:  
(Select a size below to get the code)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 120×240
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 150×125
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 180×150
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 200×200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 300×250
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 355×135
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 580×580
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 600×600

* * *



![1 de cada 33 bebés nace con un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a
reducir este riesgo. Infórmese sobre en en
www.cdc.gov/defectos](/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_02_200x200.jpg)

##### 1 in every 33 babies (in Spanish)

Available in the following sizes:  
(Select a size below to get the code)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 120×240
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 150×125
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 180×150
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 200×200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 300×250
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 355×135
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 580×580
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 600×600

* * *



![Each year, total hospital costs for U.S. children and adults with birth
defects exceed $2.6 billion. To learn more visit
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects](/ncbddd/birthdefects/buttons/Thumb-
Birth_Defects_Prev_Month_button_Costly_300x250.jpg)

##### Each year, total hospital costs for U.S. children and adults with birth
defects exceed $2.6 billion.

Available in the following sizes:  
(Select a size below to get the code)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 300×250
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 580×580

* * *



![Birth Defects causs 1 in every 5 deaths during first year of
life.](/ncbddd/birthdefects/buttons/Thumb-
Birth_Defects_Prev_Month_button_Critical_300x250.jpg)

##### Birth defects cause 1 in every 5 deaths during the first year of life.

Available in the following sizes:  
(Select a size below to get the code)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 300×250
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 580×580

 Top of Page

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Birth defects affect us all. What effect will you have on birth defects?
Learn more about birth defects visit
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_01_120x240.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Birth defects affect us all.
What effect will you have on birth defects? Learn more about birth defects
visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_01_120x240.jpg"
style="width:120px; height:240px; border:0px;" alt="Birth defects affect us
all. What effect will you have on birth defects? Learn more about birth
defects visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Birth defects affect us all. What effect will you have on birth defects?
Learn more about birth defects visit
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_01_150x125.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Birth defects affect us all.
What effect will you have on birth defects? Learn more about birth defects
visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_01_150x125.jpg"
style="width:150px; height:125px; border:0px;" alt="Birth defects affect us
all. What effect will you have on birth defects? Learn more about birth
defects visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Birth defects affect us all. What effect will you have on birth defects?
Learn more about birth defects visit
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_01_180x150.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Birth defects affect us all.
What effect will you have on birth defects? Learn more about birth defects
visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_01_180x150.jpg"
style="width:180px; height:150px; border:0px;" alt="Birth defects affect us
all. What effect will you have on birth defects? Learn more about birth
defects visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Birth defects affect us all. What effect will you have on birth defects?
Learn more about birth defects visit
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_01_200x200.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Birth defects affect us all.
What effect will you have on birth defects? Learn more about birth defects
visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_01_200x200.jpg"
style="width:200px; height:200px; border:0px;" alt="Birth defects affect us
all. What effect will you have on birth defects? Learn more about birth
defects visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Birth defects affect us all. What effect will you have on birth defects?
Learn more about birth defects visit
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_01_300x250.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Birth defects affect us all.
What effect will you have on birth defects? Learn more about birth defects
visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_01_300x250.jpg"
style="width:300px; height:250px; border:0px;" alt="Birth defects affect us
all. What effect will you have on birth defects? Learn more about birth
defects visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Birth defects affect us all. What effect will you have on birth defects?
Learn more about birth defects visit
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_01_355x135.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Birth defects affect us all.
What effect will you have on birth defects? Learn more about birth defects
visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_01_355x135.jpg"
style="width:355px; height:135px; border:0px;" alt="Birth defects affect us
all. What effect will you have on birth defects? Learn more about birth
defects visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Birth defects affect us all. What effect will you have on birth defects?
Learn more about birth defects visit
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_01_580x580.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Birth defects affect us all.
What effect will you have on birth defects? Learn more about birth defects
visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_01_580x580.jpg"
style="width:580px; height:580px; border:0px;" alt="Birth defects affect us
all. What effect will you have on birth defects? Learn more about birth
defects visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Birth defects affect us all. What effect will you have on birth defects?
Learn more about birth defects visit
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_01_600x600.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Birth defects affect us all.
What effect will you have on birth defects? Learn more about birth defects
visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_01_600x600.jpg"
style="width:600px; height:600px; border:0px;" alt="Birth defects affect us
all. What effect will you have on birth defects? Learn more about birth
defects visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Every 4.5 minutes a baby is born with a birth defect. We want to help you
reduce that risk. Learn more about prevention, detection, treatment and living
with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_02_120x240.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Every 4.5 minutes a baby is
born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatment and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_02_120x240.jpg"
style="width:120px; height:240px; border:0px;" alt="Every 4.5 minutes a baby
is born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatment and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Every 4.5 minutes a baby is born with a birth defect. We want to help you
reduce that risk. Learn more about prevention, detection, treatment and living
with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_02_150x125.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Every 4.5 minutes a baby is
born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatment and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_02_150x125.jpg"
style="width:150px; height:125px; border:0px;" alt="Every 4.5 minutes a baby
is born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatment and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Every 4.5 minutes a baby is born with a birth defect. We want to help you
reduce that risk. Learn more about prevention, detection, treatment and living
with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_02_180x150.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Every 4.5 minutes a baby is
born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatment and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_02_180x150.jpg"
style="width:180px; height:150px; border:0px;" alt="Every 4.5 minutes a baby
is born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatment and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Every 4.5 minutes a baby is born with a birth defect. We want to help you
reduce that risk. Learn more about prevention, detection, treatment and living
with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_02_200x200.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Every 4.5 minutes a baby is
born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatment and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_02_200x200.jpg"
style="width:200px; height:200px; border:0px;" alt="Every 4.5 minutes a baby
is born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatment and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Every 4.5 minutes a baby is born with a birth defect. We want to help you
reduce that risk. Learn more about prevention, detection, treatment and living
with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_02_300x250.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Every 4.5 minutes a baby is
born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatment and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_02_300x250.jpg"
style="width:300px; height:250px; border:0px;" alt="Every 4.5 minutes a baby
is born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatment and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Every 4.5 minutes a baby is born with a birth defect. We want to help you
reduce that risk. Learn more about prevention, detection, treatment and living
with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_02_355x135.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Every 4.5 minutes a baby is
born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatment and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_02_355x135.jpg"
style="width:355px; height:135px; border:0px;" alt="Every 4.5 minutes a baby
is born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatment and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Every 4.5 minutes a baby is born with a birth defect. We want to help you
reduce that risk. Learn more about prevention, detection, treatment and living
with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_02_580x580.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Every 4.5 minutes a baby is
born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatment and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_02_580x580.jpg"
style="width:580px; height:580px; border:0px;" alt="Every 4.5 minutes a baby
is born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatment and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Every 4.5 minutes a baby is born with a birth defect. We want to help you
reduce that risk. Learn more about prevention, detection, treatment and living
with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_02_600x600.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Every 4.5 minutes a baby is
born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatment and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_02_600x600.jpg"
style="width:600px; height:600px; border:0px;" alt="Every 4.5 minutes a baby
is born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatment and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![1 in every 33 babies is born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce
that risk. Learn more about prevention, detection, treatement and living with
birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects.](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_03_120x240.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="1 in every 33 babies is born
with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more about
prevention, detection, treatement and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects."><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_03_120x240.jpg"
style="width:120px; height:240px; border:0px;" alt="1 in every 33 babies is
born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatement and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects." /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![1 in every 33 babies is born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce
that risk. Learn more about prevention, detection, treatement and living with
birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects.](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_03_150x125.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="1 in every 33 babies is born
with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more about
prevention, detection, treatement and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects."><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_03_150x125.jpg"
style="width:150px; height:125px; border:0px;" alt="1 in every 33 babies is
born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatement and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects." /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![1 in every 33 babies is born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce
that risk. Learn more about prevention, detection, treatement and living with
birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects.](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_03_180x150.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="1 in every 33 babies is born
with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more about
prevention, detection, treatement and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects."><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_03_180x150.jpg"
style="width:180px; height:150px; border:0px;" alt="1 in every 33 babies is
born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatement and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects." /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![1 in every 33 babies is born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce
that risk. Learn more about prevention, detection, treatement and living with
birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects.](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_03_200x200.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="1 in every 33 babies is born
with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more about
prevention, detection, treatement and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects."><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_03_200x200.jpg"
style="width:200px; height:200px; border:0px;" alt="1 in every 33 babies is
born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatement and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects." /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![1 in every 33 babies is born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce
that risk. Learn more about prevention, detection, treatement and living with
birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects.](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_03_300x250.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="1 in every 33 babies is born
with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more about
prevention, detection, treatement and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects."><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_03_300x250.jpg"
style="width:300px; height:250px; border:0px;" alt="1 in every 33 babies is
born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatement and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects." /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![1 in every 33 babies is born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce
that risk. Learn more about prevention, detection, treatement and living with
birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects.](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_03_355x135.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="1 in every 33 babies is born
with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more about
prevention, detection, treatement and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects."><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_03_355x135.jpg"
style="width:355px; height:135px; border:0px;" alt="1 in every 33 babies is
born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatement and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects." /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![1 in every 33 babies is born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce
that risk. Learn more about prevention, detection, treatement and living with
birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects.](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_03_580x580.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="1 in every 33 babies is born
with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more about
prevention, detection, treatement and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects."><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_03_580x580.jpg"
style="width:580px; height:580px; border:0px;" alt="1 in every 33 babies is
born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatement and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects." /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![1 in every 33 babies is born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce
that risk. Learn more about prevention, detection, treatement and living with
birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects.](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_03_600x600.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="1 in every 33 babies is born
with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more about
prevention, detection, treatement and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects."><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_03_600x600.jpg"
style="width:600px; height:600px; border:0px;" alt="1 in every 33 babies is
born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatement and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects." /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![¡Cada 4 minutos y medio nace un bebé con un defecto congénito! Deseamos
ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo. Infórmese sobre en
www.cdc.gov/defectos](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_01_120x240.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="¡Cada 4 minutos y medio nace
un bebe con un defecto congenito! Deseamos ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo.
Informese sobre en www.cdc.gov/defectos"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_01_120x240.jpg"
style="width:120px; height:240px; border:0px;" alt="¡Cada 4 minutos y medio
nace un bebe con un defecto congenito! Deseamos ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo.
Informese sobre en www.cdc.gov/defectos" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![¡Cada 4 minutos y medio nace un bebé con un defecto congénito! Deseamos
ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo. Infórmese sobre en
www.cdc.gov/defectos](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_01_150x125.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="¡Cada 4 minutos y medio nace
un bebe con un defecto congenito! Deseamos ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo.
Informese sobre en www.cdc.gov/defectos"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_01_150x125.jpg"
style="width:150px; height:125px; border:0px;" alt="¡Cada 4 minutos y medio
nace un bebe con un defecto congenito! Deseamos ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo.
Informese sobre en www.cdc.gov/defectos" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![¡Cada 4 minutos y medio nace un bebé con un defecto congénito! Deseamos
ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo. Infórmese sobre en
www.cdc.gov/defectos](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_01_180x150.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="¡Cada 4 minutos y medio nace
un bebe con un defecto congenito! Deseamos ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo.
Informese sobre en www.cdc.gov/defectos"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_01_180x150.jpg"
style="width:180px; height:150px; border:0px;" alt="¡Cada 4 minutos y medio
nace un bebe con un defecto congenito! Deseamos ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo.
Informese sobre en www.cdc.gov/defectos" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![¡Cada 4 minutos y medio nace un bebé con un defecto congénito! Deseamos
ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo. Infórmese sobre en
www.cdc.gov/defectos](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_01_200x200.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="¡Cada 4 minutos y medio nace
un bebe con un defecto congenito! Deseamos ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo.
Informese sobre en www.cdc.gov/defectos"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_01_200x200.jpg"
style="width:200px; height:200px; border:0px;" alt="¡Cada 4 minutos y medio
nace un bebe con un defecto congenito! Deseamos ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo.
Informese sobre en www.cdc.gov/defectos" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![¡Cada 4 minutos y medio nace un bebé con un defecto congénito! Deseamos
ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo. Infórmese sobre en
www.cdc.gov/defectos](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_01_300x250.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="¡Cada 4 minutos y medio nace
un bebe con un defecto congenito! Deseamos ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo.
Informese sobre en www.cdc.gov/defectos"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_01_300x250.jpg"
style="width:300px; height:250px; border:0px;" alt="¡Cada 4 minutos y medio
nace un bebe con un defecto congenito! Deseamos ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo.
Informese sobre en www.cdc.gov/defectos" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![¡Cada 4 minutos y medio nace un bebé con un defecto congénito! Deseamos
ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo. Infórmese sobre en
www.cdc.gov/defectos](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_01_355x135.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="¡Cada 4 minutos y medio nace
un bebe con un defecto congenito! Deseamos ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo.
Informese sobre en www.cdc.gov/defectos"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_01_355x135.jpg"
style="width:355px; height:135px; border:0px;" alt="¡Cada 4 minutos y medio
nace un bebe con un defecto congenito! Deseamos ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo.
Informese sobre en www.cdc.gov/defectos" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![¡Cada 4 minutos y medio nace un bebé con un defecto congénito! Deseamos
ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo. Infórmese sobre en
www.cdc.gov/defectos](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_01_580x580.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="¡Cada 4 minutos y medio nace
un bebe con un defecto congenito! Deseamos ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo.
Informese sobre en www.cdc.gov/defectos"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_01_580x580.jpg"
style="width:580px; height:580px; border:0px;" alt="¡Cada 4 minutos y medio
nace un bebe con un defecto congenito! Deseamos ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo.
Informese sobre en www.cdc.gov/defectos" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![¡Cada 4 minutos y medio nace un bebé con un defecto congénito! Deseamos
ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo. Infórmese sobre en
www.cdc.gov/defectos](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_01_600x600.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="¡Cada 4 minutos y medio nace
un bebe con un defecto congenito! Deseamos ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo.
Informese sobre en www.cdc.gov/defectos"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_01_600x600.jpg"
style="width:600px; height:600px; border:0px;" alt="¡Cada 4 minutos y medio
nace un bebe con un defecto congenito! Deseamos ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo.
Informese sobre en www.cdc.gov/defectos" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![1 de cada 33 bebés nace con un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a
reducir este riesgo. Infórmese sobre en en
www.cdc.gov/defectos](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_02_120x240.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="1 de cada 33 bebes nace con
un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a reducir este riesgo. Informese
sobre en en www.cdc.gov/defectos"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_02_120x240.jpg"
style="width:120px; height:240px; border:0px;" alt="1 de cada 33 bebes nace
con un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a reducir este riesgo.
Informese sobre en en www.cdc.gov/defectos" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![1 de cada 33 bebés nace con un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a
reducir este riesgo. Infórmese sobre en en
www.cdc.gov/defectos](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_02_150x125.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="1 de cada 33 bebes nace con
un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a reducir este riesgo. Informese
sobre en en www.cdc.gov/defectos"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_02_150x125.jpg"
style="width:150px; height:125px; border:0px;" alt="1 de cada 33 bebes nace
con un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a reducir este riesgo.
Informese sobre en en www.cdc.gov/defectos" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![1 de cada 33 bebés nace con un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a
reducir este riesgo. Infórmese sobre en en
www.cdc.gov/defectos](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_02_180x150.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="1 de cada 33 bebes nace con
un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a reducir este riesgo. Informese
sobre en en www.cdc.gov/defectos"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_02_180x150.jpg"
style="width:180px; height:150px; border:0px;" alt="1 de cada 33 bebes nace
con un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a reducir este riesgo.
Informese sobre en en www.cdc.gov/defectos" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![1 de cada 33 bebés nace con un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a
reducir este riesgo. Infórmese sobre en en
www.cdc.gov/defectos](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_02_200x200.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="1 de cada 33 bebes nace con
un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a reducir este riesgo. Informese
sobre en en www.cdc.gov/defectos"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_02_200x200.jpg"
style="width:200px; height:200px; border:0px;" alt="1 de cada 33 bebes nace
con un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a reducir este riesgo.
Informese sobre en en www.cdc.gov/defectos" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![1 de cada 33 bebés nace con un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a
reducir este riesgo. Infórmese sobre en en
www.cdc.gov/defectos](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_02_300x250.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="1 de cada 33 bebes nace con
un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a reducir este riesgo. Informese
sobre en en www.cdc.gov/defectos"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_02_300x250.jpg"
style="width:300px; height:250px; border:0px;" alt="1 de cada 33 bebes nace
con un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a reducir este riesgo.
Informese sobre en en www.cdc.gov/defectos" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![1 de cada 33 bebés nace con un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a
reducir este riesgo. Infórmese sobre en en
www.cdc.gov/defectos](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_02_355x135.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="1 de cada 33 bebes nace con
un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a reducir este riesgo. Informese
sobre en en www.cdc.gov/defectos"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_02_355x135.jpg"
style="width:355px; height:135px; border:0px;" alt="1 de cada 33 bebes nace
con un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a reducir este riesgo.
Informese sobre en en www.cdc.gov/defectos" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![1 de cada 33 bebés nace con un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a
reducir este riesgo. Infórmese sobre en en
www.cdc.gov/defectos](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_02_580x580.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="1 de cada 33 bebes nace con
un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a reducir este riesgo. Informese
sobre en en www.cdc.gov/defectos"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_02_580x580.jpg"
style="width:580px; height:580px; border:0px;" alt="1 de cada 33 bebes nace
con un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a reducir este riesgo.
Informese sobre en en www.cdc.gov/defectos" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![1 de cada 33 bebés nace con un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a
reducir este riesgo. Infórmese sobre en en
www.cdc.gov/defectos](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_02_600x600.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="1 de cada 33 bebes nace con
un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a reducir este riesgo. Informese
sobre en en www.cdc.gov/defectos"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_02_600x600.jpg"
style="width:600px; height:600px; border:0px;" alt="1 de cada 33 bebes nace
con un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a reducir este riesgo.
Informese sobre en en www.cdc.gov/defectos" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Each year, total hospital costs for U.S. children and adults with birth
defects exceed $2.6 billion. To learn more visit
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects](/ncbddd/birthdefects/buttons/birth_defects_prev_month_button_costly_300x250.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Each year, total hospital
costs for U.S. children and adults with birth defects exceed $2.6 billion. To
learn more visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/buttons/birth_defects_prev_month_button_costly_300x250.jpg"
style="width:300px; height:250px; border:0px;" alt="Each year, total hospital
costs for U.S. children and adults with birth defects exceed $2.6 billion. To
learn more visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Each year, total hospital costs for U.S. children and adults with birth
defects exceed $2.6 billion. To learn more visit
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects](/ncbddd/birthdefects/buttons/birth_defects_prev_month_button_costly_580x580.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Each year, total hospital
costs for U.S. children and adults with birth defects exceed $2.6 billion. To
learn more visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/buttons/birth_defects_prev_month_button_costly_580x580.jpg"
style="width:580px; height:580px; border:0px;" alt="Each year, total hospital
costs for U.S. children and adults with birth defects exceed $2.6 billion. To
learn more visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Birth Defects causs 1 in every 5 deaths during first year of life. To learn
more visit
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects](/ncbddd/birthdefects/buttons/birth_defects_prev_month_button_critical_300x250.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Birth Defects causs 1 in
every 5 deaths during first year of life. To learn more visit
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/buttons/birth_defects_prev_month_button_critical_300x250.jpg"
style="width:300px; height:250px; border:0px;" alt="Birth Defects causs 1 in
every 5 deaths during first year of life. To learn more visit
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Birth Defects causs 1 in every 5 deaths during first year of life. To learn
more visit
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects](/ncbddd/birthdefects/buttons/birth_defects_prev_month_button_critical_580x580.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Birth Defects causs 1 in
every 5 deaths during first year of life. To learn more visit
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/buttons/birth_defects_prev_month_button_critical_580x580.jpg"
style="width:580px; height:580px; border:0px;" alt="Birth Defects causs 1 in
every 5 deaths during first year of life. To learn more visit
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" /></a>

Close

Page last reviewed: December 5, 2019

Content source: ï»¿ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Birth Defects Homepage

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * What are Birth Defects?plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Preventing Birth Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 5 Ways to Lower the Risk of Neural Tube Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Specific Birth Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Anophthalmia / Microphthalmia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Anotia / Microtia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cleft Lip / Cleft Palate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Congenital Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Atrial Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Atrioventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Coarctation of the Aorta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * D-Transposition of the Great Arteries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pulmonary Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tetralogy of Fallot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Return
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tricuspid Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Truncus Arteriosus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Ventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Craniosynostosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Diaphragmatic Hernia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Down Syndromeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data and Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Growth Charts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Esophageal Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Gastroschisis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Hypospadias
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Microcephaly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Neural tube defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Anencephaly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Encephalocele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Spina Bifida
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Omphalocele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Upper and Lower Limb Reduction Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Research & Trackingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * MACDP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * State-based Trackingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Arizona
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Colorado
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Florida
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Illinois
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Kentucky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Michigan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Minnesota
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * New Jersey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Oklahoma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Oregon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Puerto Rico
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Rhode Island
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Texas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Utah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * CBDRPplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * NBDPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * BD-STEPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Research Tools and Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Articles & Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Down Syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Healthy Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Folic Acid and Birth Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Pregnant? Donât Smoke!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * World Birth Defects Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Materials & Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Coloring Pages
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Folic Acid and You
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Prevent to Protect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Make a PACT for Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Birth Defects are Common, Costly, and Critical
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Videos & Podcasts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Buttonsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Best for You. Best for Baby.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Prevent to Protect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * PACT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Quiz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * BD Prevention Monthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Social Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Real Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cleft Lip and Palate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Clubfoot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Craniosynostosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Down Syndromeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Meganâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Calebâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Bryton and Fenixâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Keatonâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Markâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Eye Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Fetal Alcohol Syndrome Disorders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Gastroschisis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Coarctation of the Aorta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Hypoplastic left heart syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tetralogy of Fallot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Other types of heart defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Omphalocele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Spina Bifidaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Randi, Karen, & Robert
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nikiaâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Dailyâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Eliâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Elleyâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Katieâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zacharyâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Bethâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Henryâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Reneeâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Clarkâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Anifaâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Share Your Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Information for Healthcare Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Information for Familiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Finding Support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Care Providerâs Role
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Links to Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * About CDCâs Work

![Zika and Pregnancy Button](/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/button-zika-
preg-180px.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

