https://www.cdc.gov/fellowships/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/fellowships/index.html    
                Description: Whether you are on a career track or deciding on which career you would like to pursue, CDC has many diverse fellowship, internship, training, and volunteer opportunities for students and professionals.    
                Keywords: public health fellowships, internships, learning opportunities, open applications, short-term internships, full-time fellowships, work experience opportunities, training and education, host sites, Education &amp; Training    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Fellowships and Training Opportunities

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email
                      * Syndicate

# Fellowships and Training Opportunities

Minus

Related Pages

![A Laboratory Leadership Service fellow operates a next generation sequencer
instrument in a CDC streptococcus laboratory. Atlanta, GA
\(2017\)](/fellowships/images/lls-fellow-next-gen-sequencer.jpg)

A Laboratory Leadership Service fellow operates a next generation sequencer
instrument in a CDC streptococcus laboratory. Atlanta, GA (2017)

![An Epidemic Intelligence Service officer swabs the nasal passage of an
elephant carcass during a field investigation for an anthrax outbreak in
wildlife. Namibia \(2017\)](/fellowships/images/eis-officer-sawb-elep-
carcass.jpg)

An Epidemic Intelligence Service officer swabs the nasal passage of an
elephant carcass during a field investigation for an anthrax outbreak in
wildlife. Namibia (2017)

![An Epidemiology Elective Program student helps prepare laboratory samples
during an Epi-Aid investigation into a leptospirosis outbreak among dogs.
Arizona \(2017\)](/fellowships/images/eep-sample-urine-culture.jpg)

An Epidemiology Elective Program student helps prepare laboratory samples
during an Epi-Aid investigation into a leptospirosis outbreak among dogs.
Arizona (2017)

![STEM teachers and educators participating in the Science Ambassador
Fellowship gather for 5 days of professional development at CDC. Atlanta, GA
\(2017\)](/fellowships/images/sa-stem-teacher-student-800px.jpg)

STEM teachers and educators participating in the Science Ambassador Fellowship
gather for 5 days of professional development at CDC. Atlanta, GA (2017)

![PHIFP fellows work with Indiana State Department of Health staff to develop
a dashboard for HIV monitoring and prevention metrics reporting. Indiana
\(2017\)](/fellowships/images/phifp-fellows-indiana-800px.jpg)

PHIFP fellows work with Indiana State Department of Health staff to develop a
dashboard for HIV monitoring and prevention metrics reporting. Indiana (2017)

![PMR/F learners work in a service learning environment to better understand
how to efficiently address major population health issues. Washington, DC
\(2016\)](/fellowships/images/pmrf-learners-DC-800px.jpg)

PMR/F learners work in a service learning environment to better understand how
to efficiently address major population health issues. Washington, DC (2016)

![Education Friends Lifestyle Digital Device Group
Concept](/fellowships/images/newsletter-800px.jpg)

Subscribe to the Fellowship Programs newsletter and envision your next big
move as a fellow or intern at CDC!

Whether you are on a career track or deciding on which career you would like
to pursue, CDC has many diverse fellowship, internship, training, and
volunteer opportunities for students and professionals.  Many of these
opportunities provide invaluable experience and potentially offer clear cut
paths to exciting careers with CDC.

March: Open Applications

                      * CDC Museum Disease Detective Camp open now through 3/27/2020.
                      * Epidemiology Elective Program  open now through 4/15/2020.
                      * CDC Evaluation Fellowship open now through 3/31/2020.

Short-Term Internships

                      * High School Students
                      * Undergraduate Students
                      * Master's Degree Students
                      * Doctoral Students
                      * Medical Students and Residents (MD/DO, DVM/VMD, DDS/DMD, etc.)

Full-Time Fellowships (1-2 Years)

                      * Bachelor's Degree
                      * Master's Degree
                      * Doctoral Degree
                      * Medical, Veterinary, or Other Clinical Degree (MD/DO,DVM/VMD,DDS/DMD, etc.)

Work Experience Opportunities

                      * Middle/High School Teachers
                      * Public Health Professionals

Host Sites

                      * Information for programs interested in hosting a fellow

Training & Education

                      * Recruitment Tools
                      * CDC Learning Connection
                      * Training and Continuing Education Online
                      * CDC TRAINexternal icon
                      * Field Epidemiology Training Program
                      * Additional Resources

CDC's Eric Kasowski Talks Population Health at CDC

audio iconListen to the podcast (28:48)external icon

Health Yeah! Eric Kasowski talks with the National Assoc. of Chronic Disease
Directors about CDC's population health fellowships.

Snapshot: Minority Health

Includes a summarized snapshot of opportunities to encourage interest in
public health among underrepresented individuals as well as opportunities for
those that have an interest in promoting health equity and eliminating health
disparities.

More

Contact Us

For questions, please contact us directly at fellowships@cdc.gov.

Get Email Updates

To receive routine updates highlighting fellowship, internship and learning
opportunities, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Page last reviewed: March 23, 2020

Content source: Deputy Director for Public Health Science and Surveillance,
Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology, and Laboratory Services, Division of
Scientific Education and Professional Development

home Fellowships and Training Opportunities

                      * Short-term Internships for Studentsplus icon
                        * High School Students
                        * Undergraduate Students
                        * Masterâs Degree Students
                        * Doctoral Students
                        * Medical Students and Residents (MD/DO, DVM/VMD, DDS/DMD, etc.)
                      * Full-Time Fellowshipsplus icon
                        * Bachelorâs Degree
                        * Masterâs Degree
                        * Doctoral Degree
                        * Medical Students and Residents (MD/DO, DVM/VMD, DDS/DMD, etc.)
                      * Work Experience Opportunitiesplus icon
                        * Middle/High School Teachers
                        * Public Health Professionals
                      * Minority Health Opportunities
                      * Become a Host Siteplus icon
                        * Host a student or intern (short-term opportunities)
                        * Host a fellow (full-time opportunities)
                      * Training and Education
                      * Frequently Asked Questions
                      * Recruitment Tools
                      * Additional Resources
                      * Contact Us

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                      * About CDC
                      * Jobs
                      * Funding
                      * Policies
                      * File Viewers & Players

                      * Privacy
                      * FOIA
                      * No Fear Act
                      * OIG
                      * Nondiscrimination
                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * Youtube
                      * Instagram
  

                      * Syndicate
                      * CDC TV
                      * RSS
                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

