https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/cases-updates/summary.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/cases-updates/summary.html    
                Description: CDC is closely monitoring a novel (new) coronavirus (2019-nCoV) outbreak. See its background, source, and spread, and the latest on the situation in the U.S.    
                Keywords: novel coronavirus, new coronavirus China, 2019 nCoV, wuhan china coronavirus, coronavirus China, Coronavirus [CoV]    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Self-Checker

Coronavirus Self-Checker ×

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search __ Search Icon Close Icon

Ã Coronavirus

Coronavirus All CDC

Submit __

For a full list of topics: All A-Z Topics

Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email
                      * Syndicate

# Situation Summary

Other Languages

EspaÃ±olç¹é«ä¸­æTiáº¿ng Viá»tíêµ­ì´

Minus

Related Pages

**This is a rapidly evolving situation and CDC will provide updated
information and guidance as it becomes available.**

Updated April 7, 2020

CDC is responding to a pandemic of respiratory disease spreading from person-
to-person caused by a novel (new) coronavirus. The disease has been named
"coronavirus disease 2019" (abbreviated "COVID-19"). This situation poses a
serious public health risk. The federal government is working closely with
state, local, tribal, and territorial partners, as well as public health
partners, to respond to this situation. COVID-19 can cause mild to severe
illness; most severe illness occurs in adults 65 years and older.

### Situation in U.S.

Different parts of the country are seeing different levels of COVID-19
activity. The United States nationally is in the acceleration phase of the
pandemic.  The duration and severity of each pandemic phase can vary depending
on the characteristics of the virus and the public health response.

                      * CDC and state and local public health laboratories are testing for the virus that causes COVID-19. View CDC's Public Health Laboratory Testing map.
                      * All 50 states have reported cases of COVID-19 to CDC.
                      * U.S. COVID-19 cases include: 
                        * Imported cases in travelers
                        * Cases among close contacts of a known case
                        * Community-acquired cases where the source of the infection is unknown.
                      * All U.S. states are reporting some community spread of COVID-19.
                      * View latest case counts, deaths, and a map of states with reported cases.

On This Page

                      * Situation in U.S.
                      * CDC Recommends
                      * COVID-19 Background
                      * Severity
                      * COVID-19 Now a Pandemic
                      * Risk Assessment
                      * CDC Response
                      * Highlights of CDC's Response
                      * Other Available Resources

Confirmed COVID-19 Cases Global Map

![World map showing countries with COVID-19
cases](/coronavirus/2019-ncov/images/outbreak-coronavirus-world.png)

View larger image and see a list of locations

map icon

#### COVID-19 cases in the U.S.

## CDC Recommends

                      * Everyone can do their part to help us respond to this emerging public health threat: 
                        * CDC is recommending the use of a cloth face covering to keep people who are infected but do not have symptoms from spreading COVID-19 to others.
                        * The cloth face cover is meant to protect other people in case you are infected.
                        * The cloth face coverings recommended are not surgical masks or N-95 respirators. Medical face masks are critical supplies that should be reserved for healthcare workers and other first responders, as recommended by CDC.
                        * The cloth face cover is not a substitute for social distancing.
                        * CDC continues to recommend that people try keep about 6 feet between themselves and others.
                      * The White House "Slow the Spread" guidelinespdf iconexternal icon are in place until April 30. These are part of a nationwide effort to slow the spread of COVID-19 through the implementation of social distancing at all levels of society.
                      * People 65 years and older and people with severe underlying medical conditions should take special precautions because they are at higher risk of developing serious COVID-19 illness.
                      * If you are a healthcare provider, use your judgment to determine if a patient has signs and symptoms compatible with COVID-19 and whether the patient should be tested. CDC's Criteria to Guide Evaluation and Laboratory Testing for COVID-19 provides priorities for testing patients with suspected COVID-19 infection.
                      * People who get a fever or cough should consider whether they might have COVID-19, depending on where they live, their travel history or other exposures. All of the U.S. is seeing some level of community spread of COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 may be accessed through medical providers or public health departments, but there is no treatment for this virus. Most people have mild illness and are able to recover at home without medical care.
                      * American citizens, lawful permanent residents, and their families who have been in one of the countries with travel restrictions for entering the U.S. in the past 14 days will be allowed to enter the United States but will be redirected to one of 13 airports. If you are returning from one of these countries, you should stay home and monitor your health. All other international travelers please follow CDC instructions during this time. Your cooperation is integral to the ongoing public health response to try to slow spread of this virus.

## COVID-19 Background

COVID-19 is caused by a new coronavirus. Coronaviruses are a large family of
viruses that are common in people and many different species of animals,
including camels, cattle, cats, and bats. Rarely, animal coronaviruses can
infect people and then spread between people such as with MERS-CoV, SARS-CoV,
and now with this new virus (named SARS-CoV-2).

The SARS-CoV-2 virus is a betacoronavirus, like MERS-CoV and SARS-CoV. All
three of these viruses have their origins in bats. The sequences from U.S.
patients are similar to the one that China initially posted, suggesting a
likely single, recent emergence of this virus from an animal reservoir.

Early on, many of the patients at the epicenter of the outbreak in Wuhan,
Hubei Province, China had some link to a large seafood and live animal market,
suggesting animal-to-person spread. Later, a growing number of patients
reportedly did not have exposure to animal markets, indicating person-to-
person spread. Person-to-person spread was subsequently reported outside Hubei
and in countries outside China, including in the United States. Most
international destinations now have ongoing community spread with the virus
that causes COVID-19, as does the United States. Community spread means some
people have been infected and it is not known how or where they became
exposed. Learn more about the spread of this coronavirus that is causing
COVID-19.

## Severity

The complete clinical picture with regard to COVID-19 is not fully known.
Reported illnesses have ranged from very mild (including some with no reported
symptoms) to severe, including illness resulting in death. While information
so far suggests that majority of COVID-19 illnesses are mild. An early
reportexternal icon out of China found serious illness in 16% of cases.  A CDC
Morbidity & Mortality Weekly Report that looked at severity of disease among
COVID-19 patients in the United States by age group found that 80% of deaths
were among adults 65 years and older with the highest percentage of severe
outcomes occurring in people 85 years and older. People with serious
underlying medical conditions -- like serious heart conditions, chronic lung
disease, and diabetes, for example -- also seem to be at higher risk of
developing serious COVID-19 illness.

Learn more about the symptoms associated with COVID-19.

## COVID-19 Pandemic

A pandemic is a global outbreak of disease. Pandemics happen when a new virus
emerges to infect people and can spread between people sustainably. Because
there is little to no pre-existing immunity against the new virus, it spreads
worldwide.

The virus that causes COVID-19 is infecting people and spreading easily from
person-to-person. On March 11, the COVID-19 outbreak was characterized as a
pandemic by the WHOexternal icon.

This is the first pandemic known to be caused by a new coronavirus. In the
past century, there have been four pandemics caused by the emergence of new
influenza viruses. As a result, most research and guidance around pandemics is
specific to influenza, but the same premises can be applied to the current
COVID-19 pandemic. Pandemics of respiratory disease follow a certain
progression outlined in a "Pandemic Intervals Framework." Pandemics begin with
an investigation phase, followed by recognition, initiation, and acceleration
phases. The peak of illnesses occurs at the end of the acceleration phase,
which is followed by a deceleration phase, during which there is a decrease in
illnesses. Different countries can be in different phases of the pandemic at
any point in time and different parts of the same country can also be in
different phases of a pandemic.

![Outbreaks of respiratory illness, including pandemics caused by a new virus,
typically follow a pattern and can be divided into
intervals.](/coronavirus/2019-ncov/images/preparedness-response-framework-
large.jpg)

Source: CDC's "Updated Preparedness and Response Framework for Influenza
Pandemics.".

## Risk Assessment

Risk depends on characteristics of the virus, including how well it spreads
between people; the severity of resulting illness; and the medical or other
measures available to control the impact of the virus (for example, vaccines
or medications that can treat the illness) and the relative success of these.
In the absence of vaccine or treatment medications, nonpharmaceutical
interventions become the most important response strategy. These are community
interventions that can reduce the impact of disease.

The risk from COVID-19 to Americans can be broken down into risk of exposure
versus risk of serious illness and death.

**Risk of exposure:**

                      * Cases of COVID-19 and instances of community spread are being reported in all states.
                      * People in places where ongoing community spread of the virus that causes COVID-19 has been reported are at elevated risk of exposure, with the level of risk dependent on the location.
                      * Healthcare workers caring for patients with COVID-19 are at elevated risk of exposure.
                      * Close contacts of persons with COVID-19 also are at elevated risk of exposure.
                      * Travelers returning from affected international locations where community spread is occurring also are at elevated risk of exposure, with level of risk dependent on where they traveled.

**Risk of Severe Illness:**

Based on currently available information and clinical expertise, **older
adults and people of any age who have serious underlying medical conditions
might be at higher risk for severe illness from COVID-19**. Based on what we
know now, those at higher risk for severe illness from COVID-19 are:

                      * People 65 years and older
                      * **People who live in a nursing home or long-term care facility**
                      * People of all ages with underlying medical conditions

CDC has developed guidance to help in the risk assessment and management of
people with potential community-related exposures to COVID-19.

## CDC Response

Global efforts at this time are focused concurrently on lessening the spread
and impact of this virus. The federal government is working closely with
state, local, tribal, and territorial partners, as well as public health
partners, to respond to this public health threat.

## Highlights of CDC's Response

                      * CDC established a COVID-19 Incident Management System on January 7, 2020. On January 21, CDC activated its Emergency Operations Center to better provide ongoing support to the COVID-19 response.
                      * The U.S. government has taken unprecedented steps with respect to **travel** in response to the growing public health threat posed by this new coronavirus: 
                        * Foreign nationals who have been in China, Iran, the United Kingdom, Ireland and any one of the 29 European countries in the Schengen Area within the past 14 days cannot enter the United States.
                        * U.S. citizens, residents, and their immediate family members who have been any one of those countries within in the past 14 days can enter the United States, but they are subject to health monitoring and possible quarantine for up to 14 days.
                        * CDC has issued a Level 3 Travel Health Notice for cruise ship travel. CDC recommends that all people defer travel on cruise ships, including river cruises, worldwide.
                        * CDC has issued additional specific travel guidance related to COVID-19.
                      * CDC has issued clinical guidance, including: 
                        * Clinical Guidance for Management of Patients with Confirmed Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19).
                        * Infection Prevention and Control Recommendations for Patients, including guidance on the use of personal protective equipment (PPE) during a shortage.
                      * CDC also has issued guidance for other settings, including schools, workplaces and community locations.
                      * A collection of CDC's COVID-19 Guidance Documents can be found online.
                      * CDC has deployed multidisciplinary teams to support state health departments in case identification, contact tracing, clinical management, and public communications.
                      * CDC has worked with federal partners to support the safe return of Americans overseas who have been affected by COVID-19.

![This is a picture of CDC’s laboratory test kit for severe acute respiratory
syndrome coronavirus 2 \(SARS-CoV-2\). CDC tests are provided to U.S. state
and local public health laboratories, Department of Defense \(DoD\)
laboratories.](/coronavirus/2019-ncov/images/coronavirus-testkit-sample-5.jpg)

This is a picture of CDC's laboratory test kit for severe acute respiratory
syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). CDC tests are provided to U.S. state and
local public health laboratories, Department of Defense (DoD) laboratories.

resize iconView Larger

Close![This is a picture of CDC’s laboratory test kit for severe acute
respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 \(SARS-CoV-2\). CDC tests are provided to
U.S. state and local public health laboratories, Department of Defense \(DoD\)
laboratories.](/coronavirus/2019-ncov/images/coronavirus-testkit-sample-5.jpg)

This is a picture of CDC's laboratory test kit for severe acute respiratory
syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). CDC tests are provided to U.S. state and
local public health laboratories, Department of Defense (DoD) laboratories.

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

                      * An important part of CDC's role during a public health emergency is to develop a test for the pathogen and equip state and local public health labs with testing capacity. 
                        * CDC developed an rRT-PCR test to diagnose COVID-19.
                        * As of the evening of April 13, 95 state and local public health labs in 50 states, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico have successfully verified and are currently using CDC COVID-19 diagnostic tests.
                        * Commercial manufacturers are now producing their own tests.
                      * CDC has grown the COVID-19 virus in cell culture, which is necessary for further studies, including for additional genetic characterization. The cell-grown virus was sent to NIH's BEI Resources Repositoryexternal icon for use by the broad scientific community.
                      * CDC also is developing a serology test for COVID-19.

### Other Available Resources

The following resources are available with information on COVID-19

                      * World Health Organization, Coronavirusexternal icon

Page last reviewed: March 26, 2020

Content source: National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases
(NCIRD), Division of Viral Diseases

homeCoronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)

                      * Symptoms & Testingplus icon
                        * Symptoms
                        * Should You Get Tested
                      * Prevent Getting Sickplus icon
                        * How It Spreads
                        * Protect Yourself
                        * Cloth Face Coversplus icon
                          * Recommendations for Cloth Face Covers
                          * Cloth Face Covers FAQs
                        * Cleaning Your Homeplus icon
                          * Detailed Disinfection Guidance
                        * Social Distancing
                      * Daily Life & Copingplus icon
                        * Household Checklistplus icon
                          * Detailed Planning Guidance
                        * Running Errands
                        * Stress & Copingplus icon
                          * Reducing Stigma
                          * Stop the Spread of Rumors
                        * Caring for Childrenplus icon
                          * Talking to Children
                        * If You Have Animals
                      * If You Are Sickplus icon
                        * What to Do If You Are Sickplus icon
                          * Caring for Yourself at Home
                        * Caring for Someone
                      * People Who Need Extra Precautionsplus icon
                        * People Who Are At Higher Riskplus icon
                          * Older Adults
                          * People with Asthma
                          * People with HIV
                          * At Risk for Severe Illness
                        * Others At Riskplus icon
                          * People with Disabilities
                          * Homelessness
                          * Pregnancy & Breastfeeding
                        * What You Can Do
                      * Frequently Asked Questions
                      * Travelplus icon
                        * Travelers Returning from International Travel
                        * Returning Cruise Ship Travelers
                        * Travel in the US
                        * Travel Health Notices
                        * Travelers Prohibited from Entry to the US
                        * FAQ for Travelers
                        * Communication Resources for Travelers
                      * Cases & Latest Updatesplus icon
                        * Cases in the US
                        * Testing in the US
                        * World Map
                        * Situation Summary
                        * CDC in Action
                      * Schools, Workplaces & Community Locationsplus icon
                        * Disinfecting Your Facility
                        * Schools & Child Careplus icon
                          * Guidance for Schools & Child Care
                          * FAQs for Administrators
                          * Checklist for Teachers and Parents
                          * Open Child Care Programs
                        * Colleges & Universitiesplus icon
                          * Interim Guidance for Administrators of US Institutions of Higher Education
                          * Guidance for Student Foreign Travel for Institutions of Higher Education
                          * FAQs for Administrators
                        * Businessesplus icon
                          * Interim Guidance for Businesses and Employers
                          * Small Businesses
                          * Airline Customer Service and Gate Agents
                          * Airport Baggage and Cargo Handlers
                          * Airport Custodial Staff
                          * Airport Passenger Assistance Workers
                          * Aircraft Maintenance
                          * Bus Transit Operators
                          * Rail Transit Operators
                          * Transit Maintenance Workers
                          * Transit Station Workers
                        * Gatherings & Community Eventsplus icon
                          * Interim Guidance for Event Planners
                          * Election Polling Locations
                          * FAQs for Event
                        * First Responders and Law Enforcementplus icon
                          * Information for Law Enforcement Personnel
                        * Community- and Faith-Based Organizationsplus icon
                          * Interim Guidance for Community and Faith Leaders
                          * Checklist to Get Your Organization Ready
                          * Environmental Cleaning and Disinfection Recommendations
                        * Homeless Populationplus icon
                          * Frequently Asked Questions
                          * Screening for Symptoms at Entry
                          * Interim guidance for homeless service providers
                        * Retirement Communitiesplus icon
                          * Guidance for Retirement Communities
                          * Checklist to Stay Healthy
                          * FAQs for Administrators
                        * Correctional and Detention Facilitiesplus icon
                          * Guidance for Correctional & Detention Facilities
                          * FAQs for Administrators, Staff, Incarcerated People & Family Members
                        * Public Health Communicators
                      * Healthcare Professionalsplus icon
                        * Evaluation & Testing
                        * Clinical Careplus icon
                          * Therapeutic Options
                          * Underlying Conditions
                          * Children & COVID-19
                          * Caring for Pregnant Women
                          * Caring for Patients at Home
                          * Discharging Hospitalized Patients
                          * Ending Home Isolationplus icon
                            * Ending Home Isolation for Immunocompromised Patients
                          * Telephone Response Guide
                        * Infection Controlplus icon
                          * Infection Control Guidance
                          * FAQ on Infection Control
                          * Using PPE
                          * Hand Hygiene
                          * FAQ on Hand Hygiene
                          * Nursing Homes & Long-Term Care Facilities
                          * Dialysis Facilitiesplus icon
                            * Patient Screening at Dialysis Facilities
                          * Blood & Plasma Facilities
                          * Alternate Care Sites
                          * Dental Settings
                          * Pharmacies
                          * Ambulatory Care Settings
                          * Postmortem Guidance
                        * Optimize PPE Supplyplus icon
                          * PPE Burn Rate Calculator
                          * Eye Protection
                          * Gowns
                          * Facemasks
                          * N95 Respiratorsplus icon
                            * N95 Respirator Summary
                            * Stockpiled N95 Respirators
                          * Decontamination & Reuse of Filtering Facepiece Respirators
                          * Ventilators
                          * FAQ About PPE
                        * Potential Exposure at Workplus icon
                          * Return-to-Work Criteria
                        * First Responder Guidance
                        * Preparedness Toolsplus icon
                          * Healthcare Provider Checklist
                          * Steps Healthcare Facilities Can Take
                          * Healthcare Facility Guidance
                          * Hospital Preparedness Tool
                          * Nursing Home & Long-Term Care Facility Checklist
                          * Get Your Clinic Ready
                          * Print Resources
                          * Mitigating Staff Shortages
                        * FAQs
                        * Operational Considerations for Non-US Settingsplus icon
                          * Infection Control in Non-US Facilities
                          * Triaging Sick Patients
                          * Identifying Sick Workers and Inpatients
                        * Training for Healthcare Professionals
                      * Health Departmentsplus icon
                        * Evaluating PUIs Residential
                        * Reporting a PUI or Confirmed Case
                        * Travel-Associated Exposures
                        * Community-Related Exposures
                        * Pandemic Preparedness Resources
                        * Households with Pets
                        * COVID-19 Publications
                        * Guidance for Building Water Systems
                        * Water and COVID-19 FAQs
                      * Laboratoriesplus icon
                        * FAQs for Laboratories
                        * CDC Lab Workplus icon
                          * Testing
                          * CDC Grows SARS-CoV-2
                        * Guidelines for Clinical Specimens
                        * Lab Biosafety Guidelines
                        * Laboratory Biosafety and COVID-19: Questions and Answers
                        * Requests for Diagnostic Tools and Virus
                        * Research Use Only Real-Time RT-PCR Primer and Probe Information
                      * Communication Resourcesplus icon
                        * Guidance Documents
                        * Buttons and Badges
                        * Print Resources
                        * Public Service Announcements (PSAs)
                        * Videos
                        * What's New

email_03Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about COVID-19, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                      * About CDC
                      * Jobs
                      * Funding
                      * Policies
                      * File Viewers & Players

                      * Privacy
                      * FOIA
                      * No Fear Act
                      * OIG
                      * Nondiscrimination
                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * Youtube
                      * Instagram
  

                      * Syndicate
                      * CDC TV
                      * RSS
                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

