https://www.cdc.gov/Vitalsigns/Link: https://www.cdc.gov/Vitalsigns/    
                Description: The CDC Vital Signs Health Topic monthly report that includes a MMWR Early release. The issues include health topics such as colorectal, breast cancer screening, obesity, alcohol, tobacco use, HIV testing, motor vehicle safety, cardiovascular disease, and more.    
                Keywords: CDC,  CDC Vital Signs,  Access to Health Care,  Binge Drinking,  Adult Obesity,  Colorectal Cancer,  Breast Cancer,  MMWR,  Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, Vital Signs    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Vital Signs

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email
                      * Syndicate

# CDC Vital Signs

Minus

Related Pages

Vital Signs monthly releases during COVID-19 response

alert icon

During the COVID-19 outbreak response, _Vital Signs_ science articles will
only be published in the _Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report_ once a month
and will be available at https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/.

### Current Issue

Screening for colorectal cancer: Don't wait - 50s great, March 2020, Vital
Signs

pdf iconView Transcript media iconLow Resolution Video

Screening for colorectal cancer

Don't wait -- 50's great

Read the Issue

Also check out

                      * Email Update - Subscribe
                      * Full _MMWR_ article
                      * Town Hall Teleconferences

Screening for colorectal cancer: Don't wait - 50s great, March 2020, Vital
Signs

pdf iconView Transcript media iconLow Resolution Video

![Screening for colorectal cancer is recommended beginning at age
50.](/vitalsigns/colorectalcancer/images/vs-colorectal-factoid1.png)

![Screening for colorectal cancer is recommended beginning at age
50.](/vitalsigns/colorectalcancer/images/vs-colorectal-factoid1-center.png)

Screening for colorectal cancer is recommended beginning at age 50.

![But only one-half of adults have gotten a screening test in their early 50s
\(age 50–54\).](/vitalsigns/colorectalcancer/images/vs-colorectal-
factoid2.png)

![But only one-half of adults have gotten a screening test in their early 50s
\(age 50–54\).](/vitalsigns/colorectalcancer/images/vs-colorectal-
factoid2.png)

But only one-half of adults have gotten a screening test in their early 50s
(age 50-54).

![There are six different screening tests, some that can be done either at
home or in a clinic, that can prevent or detect cancer
early.](/vitalsigns/colorectalcancer/images/vs-colorectal-factoid3.png)

![There are six different screening tests, some that can be done either at
home or in a clinic, that can prevent or detect cancer
early.](/vitalsigns/colorectalcancer/images/vs-colorectal-factoid3-center.png)

There are six different screening tests, some that can be done either at home
or in a clinic, that can prevent or detect cancer early.

Past Issues

                      * ![](/vitalsigns/test-treat-prevent/images/vs-test-treat-prevent-rss.jpg)

Ending HIV Transmission12/03/2019 12:30:00 PM

                      * ![Adverse Childhood Experiences \(ACEs\)](/vitalsigns/aces/images/aces-rss.jpg)

Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACEs)11/05/2019 12:45:00 PM

                      * ![Studies show flu and whooping cough vaccines are very safe for pregnant women and developing babies.](/vitalsigns/maternal-vaccines/images/maternal-vaccines-rss.jpg)

Vaccinating Pregnant Women10/08/2019 12:45:00 PM

                      * ![Life-Saving Naloxone from Pharmacies](/vitalsigns/naloxone/images/naloxone-vs-rss.jpg)

Life-Saving Naloxone from Pharmacies8/06/2019 12:45:00 PM

                      * ![Acute Flaccid Myelitis \(AFM\)](/vitalsigns/afm/images/afm-vs-feed.jpg)

Acute Flaccid Myelitis (AFM)7/09/2019 12:45:00 PM

                      * ![Family taking a stroll through woodlands.](/vitalsigns/rabies/images/vs-rabies-feed.jpg)

Rabies: A Forgotten Killer6/12/2019 12:45:00 PM

                      * ![](/vitalsigns/maternal-deaths/images/materal-death-feed.jpg)

Pregnancy-Related Deaths5/07/2019 12:30:00 PM

                      * ![hiv](https://www.cdc.gov/vitalsigns/end-hiv/images/vs-hiv-epidemic_rss.jpg)

Ending the HIV Epidemic3/18/2019 1:45:00 PM

More

![image of Coronavirus Disease 2019
\(COVID-19\)](http://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/images/Coronavirus-
badge-300.png)

About Vital Signs

The  _CDC Vital Signs_ monthly report was launched in 2010. It generally
includes an _MMWR_ early release, a graphic fact sheet and website, a media
release, and social media tools. Most of the materials are available in
English and Spanish.

Vital Signs reports cover an important health threat and what can be done to
drive down the disease. Past topics have included cancer screening, alcohol
and tobacco use, HIV testing, motor vehicle safety, cardiovascular disease,
healthcare-associated infections, and foodborne disease.

Please sign up to get Vital Signs through email each month at Vital Signs.
Feel free to share CDC Vital Signs information broadly with your partners.
Take advantage of CDC's social media tools, such as the CDC Vital Signs
buttons and email updates. You can have CDC Vital Signs reports sent directly
to your own website to display through our content syndication service.

Page last reviewed: March 12, 2020

Content source: Office of the Associate Director for Communication

home Vital Signs

                      * Topics Covered
                      * All CDC Vital Signs
                      * Digital Media Tools

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                      * About CDC
                      * Jobs
                      * Funding
                      * Policies
                      * File Viewers & Players

                      * Privacy
                      * FOIA
                      * No Fear Act
                      * OIG
                      * Nondiscrimination
                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * Youtube
                      * Instagram
  

                      * Syndicate
                      * CDC TV
                      * RSS
                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

