

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

_Salmonella_

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

# Multistate Outbreak of _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Organic Sprouted
Chia Powder (Final Update)

Minus

Related Pages

Posted August 13, 2014 2:30 PM ET

This outbreak appears to be over _._ However, _Salmonella_ is an important
cause of human illness in the United States. More information about
_Salmonella_ , and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection,
can be found on the CDC _Salmonella_ Web Page.

Highlights

                    * **Read the Advice to Consumers »**
                    * This outbreak appears to be over.
                    * A total of 31 persons infected with the outbreak strains of _Salmonella_ Newport (20 persons), _Salmonella_ Hartford (7 persons), or _Salmonella_ Oranienburg (4 persons) were reported from 16 states.
                    * Five ill persons were hospitalized. No deaths were reported.
                    * Collaborative investigation efforts of state, local, and federal public health and regulatory agencies indicated that organic sprouted chia powder was the likely source of this outbreak. 
                      * Sprouted chia powder is made from chia seeds that are sprouted, dried, and ground.
                    * CDC's National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory conducted antibiotic resistance testing on _Salmonella_ isolates collected from four ill persons infected with _Salmonella_ Hartford or Newport. 
                      * All isolates were pansusceptible (susceptible to all antibiotics tested).
                    * As a result of this investigation, several recalls of products containing organic sprouted chia powder and chia seeds were issued. Although the outbreak appears to be over, these products have a long shelf life and may still be in people's homes. Consumers unaware of the recall could continue to eat the products and potentially get sick. 
                      * CDC recommends that consumers do not eat any of the recalled products containing organic sprouted chia powder or chia seeds.
                      * The recalled products were available for purchase in many retail stores nationwide and online.
                    * The Public Health Agency of CanadaExternal investigated similar cases of _Salmonella_ infection in several Canadian provinces. 
                      * Several Canadian companies recalledExternal products containing sprouted chia powder or chia seeds.
                    * _Salmonella_ is an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about _Salmonella_ , and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC _Salmonella_ Web Page.

Final Case Count Update

A total of 31 ill persons infected with the outbreak strains of _Salmonella_
Newport (20 persons) _, Salmonella_ Hartford (7 persons) _, or Salmonella_
Oranienburg (4 persons) were reported from 16 states. Since the last update on
July 17, 2014, six additional ill persons were reported from California (1),
Illinois (2), Maryland (1), and New York (2). The total number of ill persons
identified in each state was as follows: Arizona (1), California (4), Colorado
(1), Connecticut (3), Florida (1), Illinois (2), Maryland (1), Massachusetts
(1), Michigan (1), New York (7), Ohio (1), Rhode Island (1), Texas (2), Utah
(1), Washington (1), and Wisconsin (3).

Among persons for whom information was available, dates that illnesses began
ranged from January 21, 2014, to July 22, 2014. Ill persons ranged in age from
1 year to 81 years, with a median age of 48 years. Sixty-one percent of ill
persons were female. Among 23 ill persons with available information, five
(22%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported.

This outbreak appears to be over. However, these products have a long shelf
life and may still be in people's homes. Consumers unaware of the recall could
continue to eat the products and potentially get sick.

### Previous Outbreak Updates

July 17, 2014

#### Case Count Update

As of July 14, 2014, a total of 25 ill persons infected with the outbreak
strains of _Salmonella Newport (16 persons), Salmonella Hartford (7 persons),
or Salmonella Oranienburg (2 persons)_ have been reported from 14 states.
Since the last update on June 11, 2014, 4 additional ill persons have been
reported from New York (1), Rhode Island (1), and Texas (2).

Among persons for whom information is available, dates that illnesses began
range from January 21, 2014 to June 21, 2014. Ill persons range in age from 1
year to 81 years, with a median age of 45 years. Sixty percent of ill persons
are female. Among 20 ill persons with available information, three (15%)
report being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported.

Illnesses that occurred after June 27, 2014, might not yet be reported due to
the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is
reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. The recalled products
containing organic sprouted chia powder have a long shelf life and may still
be in people's homes, and illnesses may continue to be reported. Please see
the Timeline for Reporting Cases of _Salmonella_ Infection for more details.

#### Investigation Update

Epidemiologic and traceback findings have linked this outbreak of _Salmonella_
infections to various brands of organic sprouted chia powder.

FDAExternal laboratory sampling identified _Salmonella_ Gaminara from one
sample of Organic Traditions Sprouted Chia Seed Powder. A search of the
PulseNet database did not identify any human isolates matching this pattern of
_Salmonella_ Gaminara.

The National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) is a U.S.
public health surveillance system that tracks antibiotic resistance in
foodborne and other enteric bacteria found in humans, retail meats and
poultry, and food-producing animals. NARMS is an interagency partnership among
CDC, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), U.S. Department of
Agriculture (USDA), and state and local health departments.

The NARMS human surveillance program at CDC monitors antibiotic resistance in
_Salmonella_ and other bacteria isolated from clinical specimens submitted to
NARMS by public health laboratories. CDC's NARMS laboratory conducted
antibiotic resistance testing on four isolates collected from ill persons
infected with the outbreak strains of _Salmonella_ Hartford (two isolates) and
_Salmonella_ Newport (two isolates). Of the four isolates tested, all were
pansusceptible (susceptible to all antibiotics on the NARMS panel).

The Public Health Agency of CanadaExternal and the Canadian Food Inspection
Agency continue to investigate similar cases of _Salmonella_ infection in
several Canadian provinces. CDC, state, local, and Canadian public health
partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify
additional ill persons and to interview ill persons about foods eaten before
becoming ill. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) continues to work
closely with CDC and other partners in this investigation.

June 11, 2014

#### Case Count Update

Product testing of a sample of leftover Navitas Naturals Organic Sprouted Chia
Powder collected from an ill person's home in Connecticut isolated the
outbreak strains of _Salmonella_ Newport and _Salmonella_ Hartford, and an
additional serotype, _Salmonella_ Oranienburg. A search of the PulseNet
database identified a total of two ill persons infected with the same strain
of _Salmonella_ Oranienburg in two U.S. states. This strain of _Salmonella_
Oranienburg has been seen before in PulseNet, one case per month on average.
Initial interviews with ill persons suggested a link to the ongoing outbreak
investigation, so these illnesses have been combined with the existing
_Salmonella_ Newport and _Salmonella_ Hartford infections previously
identified.

As of June 9, 2014, a total of 21 ill persons infected with the outbreak
strains of _Salmonella_ Newport (13 persons), _Salmonella_ Hartford (6
persons), or _Salmonella_ Oranienburg (2 persons) have been reported from 12
states. The number of ill persons identified in each state is as follows:
Arizona (1), California (3), Colorado (1), Connecticut (3), Florida (1),
Massachusetts (1), Michigan (1), New York (4), Ohio (1), Utah (1), Washington
(1), and Wisconsin (3).

Among persons for whom information is available, dates that illnesses began
range from January 21, 2014 to May 21, 2014. Ill persons range in age from 1
year to 81 years, with a median age of 49 years. Sixty-two percent of ill
persons are female. Among 15 ill persons with available information, 2 (13%)
report being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported.

Illnesses that occurred after May 13, 2014 might not yet be reported due to
the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is
reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. The recalled products
containing organic sprouted chia powder have a long shelf-life and may still
be in people's homes, and illnesses may continue to be reported. Please see
the Timeline for Reporting Cases of _Salmonella_ Infection for more details.

#### Investigation Update

Epidemiologic and traceback findings have linked this outbreak of _Salmonella_
infections to various brands of organic sprouted chia powder.

In interviews, ill persons are answering questions about foods eaten and other
exposures in the week before becoming ill. To date, 16 (100%) of 16 persons
interviewed reported eating chia seeds or powder, and 11 (73%) of 15 persons
who identified the type of chia product consumed reported eating chia powder
specifically.

Laboratory testing conducted by public health laboratories in Connecticut,
Massachusetts, and New York isolated one or more of the outbreak strains from
5 samples of leftover Navitas Naturals products containing organic sprouted
chia powder collected from ill persons homes and 2 samples of unopened Navitas
Naturals products containing organic sprouted chia powder collected from
retail locations.

The Public Health Agency of CanadaExternal and the Canadian Food Inspection
Agency continue to investigate similar cases of _Salmonella_ infection in
several Canadian provinces. CDC, state, local, and Canadian public health
partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify
additional ill persons and to interview ill persons about foods eaten before
becoming ill. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is continuing to
work closely with CDC and other partners in this investigation.

June 3, 2014

#### Case Count Update

Through a collaborative investigation with the Public Health Agency of
CanadaExternal

(PHAC), a total of five ill persons infected with a strain of _Salmonella_
Hartford matching an outbreak strain in Canada have been identified through
PulseNet in five U.S. states. This strain of _Salmonella_ Hartford has never
been seen before in PulseNet. Initial interviews with ill persons suggested a
link to the ongoing _Salmonella_ Newport outbreak investigation in the United
States. These illnesses have been combined with the existing _Salmonella_
Newport infections previously identified as part of this investigation.

As of June 2, 2014, a total of 17 ill persons infected with the outbreak
strains of _Salmonella_ Newport (12 persons) or _Salmonella_ Hartford (5
persons) have been reported from 10 states. The number of ill persons
identified in each state is as follows: Arizona (1), California (2),
Connecticut (2), Ohio (1), Florida (1), Massachusetts (1), Michigan (1), New
York (4), Utah (1), and Wisconsin (3).

Among persons for whom information is available, dates that illnesses began
range from January 21, 2014 to May 5, 2014. Ill persons range in age from 4
years to 81 years, with a median age of 51 years. Sixty-five percent of ill
persons are female. Among 13 ill persons with available information, two (15%)
report being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported.

Illnesses that occurred after May 16, 2014 might not yet be reported due to
the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is
reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. The recalled products
containing organic sprouted chia powder have a long shelf-life and may still
be in people's homes, and illnesses may continue to be reported. Please see
the Timeline for Reporting Cases of _Salmonella_ Infection for more details.

#### Investigation Update

Epidemiologic and traceback findings have linked this outbreak of _Salmonella_
infections to various brands of organic sprouted chia powder.

In interviews, ill persons are answering questions about foods eaten and other
exposures in the week before becoming ill. To date, 12 (100%) of 12 persons
interviewed reported eating chia seeds or powder, and 9 (75%) of 12 persons
reported eating chia powder specifically.

On May 28, 2014, Navitas Naturals recalledExternal

products that contain organic sprouted chia powder due to possible
_Salmonella_ contamination. The recalled products include Navitas Naturals
Organic Sprouted Chia Powder, Navitas Naturals Omega Blend Sprouted Smoothie
Mix, and Williams-Sonoma Omega 3 Smoothie Mixer. The recalled products are
available for purchase in many retail stores and online.

On May 30, 2014, the Canadian Food Inspection Agency (CFIA) notified consumers
that Advantage Health Matters and Back 2 the Garden recalledExternal

various products containing sprouted chia seed powder due to possible
_Salmonella_ contamination. These products are sold under the brand names
Organic Traditions and Back 2 the Garden and are available for purchase online
by consumers in the United States.

Several samples of leftover organic sprouted chia powder from ill persons
homes and unopened packages from retail locations are being tested for the
presence of _Salmonella_ bacteria. Results of this testing are pending and
will be released when they become available.

CDC, state, local, and Canadian public health partners are continuing
laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill persons
and to interview ill persons about foods eaten before becoming ill. The U.S.
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is continuing to work closely with CDC and
other partners in this investigation.

Initial Announcement

##### May 29, 2014

CDC is collaborating with public health officials in several states and the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak
of _Salmonella_ Newport infections. Results from this ongoing investigation
indicate that organic sprouted chia powder distributed by Navitas Naturals of
Novato, California is the likely source of this outbreak. Chia powder is made
from ground dried chia seeds.

Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify cases of
illness that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet, the national subtyping
network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated
by CDC, obtains DNA "fingerprints" of _Salmonella_ bacteria through diagnostic
testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of
illness that may be part of this outbreak. This PFGE pattern has never been
seen before in PulseNet.

A total of 12 ill persons infected with the outbreak strain of _Salmonella
Newport_ have been reported from 7 states. The number of ill persons
identified in each state is as follows: Arizona (1), California (2),
Connecticut (1), Massachusetts (1), New York (4), Utah (1), and Wisconsin (2).

Among persons for whom information is available, dates that illnesses began
range from January 21, 2014 to May 5, 2014. Ill persons range in age from 4
years to 71 years, with a median age of 48 years. Fifty-eight percent of ill
persons are female. Among ten ill persons with available information, one
(10%) reports being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported.

This outbreak can be visually described with a chart showing the number of
persons who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi
curve. Illnesses that occurred after May 8, 2014 might not yet be reported due
to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is
reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. The recalled products
containing organic sprouted chia powder have a long shelf-life and may still
be in peoples homes, and illnesses may continue to be reported. Please see the
Timeline for Reporting Cases of _Salmonella_ Infection for more details.

#### Investigation of the Outbreak

Epidemiologic and traceback findings have linked this outbreak of _Salmonella_
infections to organic sprouted chia powder distributed by Navitas Naturals.

In interviews, ill persons answered questions about food eaten and other
exposures in the week before becoming ill. Seven (100%) of seven persons
interviewed reported eating chia powder. Six (86%) of these seven people
reported eating the Navitas Naturals organic sprouted chia powder.

On May 28, 2014, Navitas Naturals recalledExternal

products that contain organic sprouted chia powder due to possible
_Salmonella_ contamination. The recalled products include Navitas Naturals
Organic Sprouted Chia Powder, Navitas Naturals Omega Blend Sprouted Smoothie
Mix, and Williams-Sonoma Omega 3 Smoothie Mixer. The recalled products are
available for purchase in many retail stores and online.

Several samples of leftover organic sprouted chia powder from ill persons
homes and unopened packages from retail locations are being tested for the
presence of _Salmonella_ bacteria. Results of this testing will be released
when they become available.

CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory
surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill persons and to
interview ill persons about foods eaten before becoming ill. The U.S. Food and
Drug Administration (FDA) is continuing to work closely with CDC and state
partners in this investigation.

At A Glance

                    * Case Count: 31
                    * States: 16
                    * Deaths: 0
                    * Hospitalizations: 5
                    * Recall: Yes

More Information

                    * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                    * Signs & Symptoms
                    * Key Resources

Click to view final EPI curve graphs.

![Persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella, by date of illness
onset](/salmonella/newport-05-14/images/081314-epi-tn.jpg)

Click to view final case count maps.

![Persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella, by
state](/salmonella/newport-05-14/images/081314-map-tn.jpg)

Page last reviewed: August 13, 2014

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Foodborne,
Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases (DFWED)

home _Salmonella_ Homepage

                    * Questions & Answersplus icon
                      * Additional Information
                    * Prevention
                    * Symptoms
                    * Diagnosis & Treatmentplus icon
                      * Diagnostic and Public Health Testing
                    * Current Outbreaksplus icon
                      * Reporting Timeline
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Pet Turtlesplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a tortugas mascota pequeÃ±as
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Cut Fruitplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Ground Beefplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a la carne de res molida
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Turtlesplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a turtugas mascota
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pig Ear Dog Treatsplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Papayasplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a papayas frescas enteras importadas de MÃ©xico
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Karawan brand Tahiniplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a tahini de la marca Karawan
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Backyard Poultryplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brotes de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculados a aves de corral domÃ©sticas
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Raw Tunaplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ Newport vinculado a atÃºn crudo congelado
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melonplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ Carrau vinculado a melÃ³n y sandÃ­a precortados
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                        * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Butterball Brand Ground Turkeyplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado al pavo molido de marca Butterball
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                        * Actualizaciones de la investigaciÃ³n del brote, por fecha
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Hedgehogsplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a los erizos como mascota
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                        * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                    * Previous Outbreaksplus icon
                      * 2018 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Multidrug-Resistant _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Raw Turkey Productsplus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por Salmonella multirresistente vinculado a productos de pavo crudo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Tahini from Achdut Ltd., 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a tahini elaborado por Achdut Ltd.
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Raw Chicken Products, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Advice to Clinicians
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por Salmonella multirresistente vinculado a productos de pollo crudo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Recomendaciones para los mÃ©dicos
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Ground Beef, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a carne molida de res
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Agbeni Infections, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Gravel Ridge Farms Shell Eggs, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado al pollo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chicken, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado al pollo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Hy-Vee Spring Pasta Salad, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por Salmonella vinculado a la ensalada de pasta âHy-Vee Spring Pasta Saladâ
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Kelloggâs Honey Smacks Cereal, 2018plus icon
                          * Salmonella Infections Linked to Kelloggâs Honey Smacks Cereal en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melon, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melon en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Contact with Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Contact with Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Case Count Maps
                        * _Salmonella_ Braenderup Infections Linked to Shell Eggs, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Braenderup Infections Linked to Shell Eggs en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recalls and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Dried Coconut, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Dried Coconut en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall and Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Guinea Pigs, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Guinea Pigs en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Case Count Maps en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Signs & Symptoms en EspaÃ±ol
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chicken Salad, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chicken Salad en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Kratom, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Kratom en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recalls and Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Montevideo Infections Linked to Raw Sprouts, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Raw Sprouts en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Shredded Coconut, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Shredded Coconut en EspaÃ±ol
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Shredded Coconut á» Viá»t Nam [PDF â 3 pages]
                          * Recall and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2017 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Urbana Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Urbana Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Newport & Infantis Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Newport & Infantis Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Anatum Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Anatum Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Turtles, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles, 2017 en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Case Count Maps
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Laboratory Exposure, 2017plus icon
                          * Advice to Students & Employees in Microbiology Laboratories
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry in Backyard Flocksplus icon
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Live Poultry FAQ
                      * 2016 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Heidelberg Infections Linked to Contact with Dairy Calves, 2016plus icon
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                        * _Salmonella_ Oranienburg Infections Linked to Shell Eggs, 2016plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Reading and _Salmonella_ Abony Infections linked to Alfalfa Sprouts, 2016plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps 
                          * Epi Curves 
                          * Signs & Symptoms 
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2016plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Live Poultry FAQs
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Montevideo and _Salmonella_ Senftenberg Infections Linked to Wonderful Pistachios, 2016plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts from One Contaminated Seed Lot, 2016plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Virchow Infections Linked to Raw Meal Organic Shake and Meal Products, 2016plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2015 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) Infections Linked to Sprouted Nut Butter Spreads, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles, 2015plus icon
                          * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Advice to Pet Owners en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Signs & Symptoms 
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Poona Infections Linked to Imported Cucumbers, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Multidrug-Resistant _Salmonella_ I 4,[5],12:i:- and _Salmonella_ Infantis Infections Linked to Pork, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Enteritidis Infections Linked to Raw, Frozen, Stuffed Chicken Entrees Produced by Aspen Foods, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Drug-Resistant _Salmonella_ Enteritidis Infections Linked to Raw, Frozen, Stuffed Chicken Entrees Produced by Barber Foods, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2015plus icon
                          * Advice to Backyard Flock Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Raw Tuna, 2015plus icon
                          * Advice to Retailers & Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Crested Geckos, 2015plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2014 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Bean Sprouts, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                          * Final Case Count Maps
                          * Final Epi Curve
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Braenderup Infections Linked to Nut Butter, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human Typhimurium Infections Linked to Laboratory Exposure, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Students & Employees in Labs
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chia Powder, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Frozen Feeder Rodents, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Bearded Dragons, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Heidelberg Infections Linked to Tyson Brand Mechanically Separated Chicken, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Institutions
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Stanley Infections Linked to Raw Cashew Cheese, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2013 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Heidelberg Infections Linked to Foster Farms Brand Chicken, 2013plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                          * Timeline of Events
                        * _Salmonella_ Mbandaka Infections Linked to Tahini Sesame Paste, 2013plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Saintpaul Infections Linked to Imported Cucumbers, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Heidelberg Infections Linked to Chicken, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Ground Beef, 2013plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2012 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Bredeney Infections Linked to Peanut Butter, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Hedgehogs, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Braenderup Infections Associated with Mangoes, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Typhimurium and Newport Infections Linked to Cantaloupe, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Ground Beef, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Hadar Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Montevideo Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infantis Infections Linked to Dry Dog Food, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Information for Pet Owners
                          * Information for Veterinarians
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Bareilly and Nchanga Infections Associated with a Raw Scraped Ground Tuna Product, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                          * Timeline of Events
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Outbreaks Diagram
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resource
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Restaurant Chain A, 2012
                      * 2010 through 2011 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to Ground Beef
                        * Heidelberg Infections Linked to Kosher Broiled Chicken Livers
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Turkish Pine Nuts
                        * Heidelberg Infections Linked to Ground Turkey
                        * Agona Infections Linked to Whole, Fresh Imported Papayas
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts and Spicy Sprouts
                        * Altona and Johannesburg Infections Linked to Chicks and Ducklings
                        * Typhimurium Infections Associated with Lab Exposure
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to African Dwarf Frogs
                        * Hadar Infections Associated with Turkey Burgers
                        * Panama Infections Linked to Cantaloupe
                        * I 4,[5],12:i:- Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts
                        * Enteritidis Infections Associated with Shell Eggs
                        * Chester Infections Associated with Cheesy Chicken & Rice Frozen EntrÃ©e
                        * Typhi (Typhoid Fever) Associated with Frozen Mamey Fruit Pulp
                        * Hartford and Baildon Infections Associated with Restaurant Chain A
                        * I 4,[5],12:i:- Linked to Frozen Rodents
                        * Newport Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts
                        * Montevideo Infections Linked to Red and Black Pepper/Italian-Style Meats
                      * 2006 through 2009 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Saintpaul Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pistachio Nuts
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to Peanut Butter
                        * Saintpaul Infections Linked to Raw Produce
                        * Agona Infections Linked to Rice & Wheat Puff Cereal
                        * Litchfield Infections Linked to Cantaloupe
                        * I 4,[5],12:i:- Infections Linked to Pot Pies
                        * Human Schwarzengrund Infections Linked to Dry Pet Food
                        * Wandsworth Infections Linked to Veggie Booty
                        * Tennessee Infections Linked to Peanut Butter
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to Tomatoes
                    * For Health Professionals
                    * Surveillanceplus icon
                      * _Salmonella_ Atlasplus icon
                        * 32 Individual Serotypes Reports
                        * Importance of Serotyping
                        * Snapshots of Serotypes
                    * Communication Materials
                    * Reports & Publicationsplus icon
                      * MMWR Articles
                      * References

Related Links

                    * Multistate Foodborne Outbreaks
                    * Zoonotic Diseases (Diseases from Animals)
                    * Foodborne Illness A-Z
                    * Estimates of Foodborne Illness
                    * Report a Foodborne Illness
                    * Foodsafety.govExternal file_external 
                    * U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External file_external 
                    * USDA Food Safety and Inspection ServiceExternal file_external 

Follow Salmonella

![Sign up for RSS feed.](/salmonella/images/outbreaks/rss-icon.png)

Sign up for RSS Feed

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

