https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/heartdefects/hlhs.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/heartdefects/hlhs.html    
                Description: Hypoplastic (pronounced hi-puh-PLAS-tik) left heart syndrome or HLHS is a birth defect that affects normal blood flow through the heart.    
                Keywords: CHDs,  congenital heart defects,  hypoplastic left heart syndrome,  HLHS, Congenital Heart Defects    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Congenital Heart Defects (CHDs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

# Facts about Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

![Picture of Hypoplastic Left Heart
Syndrome](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/hlhs-web_small.jpg)

Click here to view a larger image

![Picture of Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome and a normal
heart](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/HPLH_web_small.jpg)

Click here to view a larger image

Hypoplastic (pronounced hi-puh-PLAS-tik) left heart syndrome or HLHS is a
birth defect that affects normal blood flow through the heart.

### What is Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome?

Hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS) is a birth defect that affects normal
blood flow through the heart. As the baby develops during pregnancy, the left
side of the heart does not form correctly. Hypoplastic left heart syndrome is
one type of congenital heart defect. Congenital means present at birth.
Because a baby with this defect needs surgery or other procedures soon after
birth, HLHS is considered a critical congenital heart defect (CCHD).

Hypoplastic left heart syndrome affects a number of structures on the left
side of the heart that do not fully develop, for example:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The _left ventricle_ is underdeveloped and too small.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The _mitral valves_ is not formed or is very small.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The _aortic valve_ is not formed or is very small.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The ascending portion of the _aorta_ is underdeveloped or is too small.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Often, babies with hypoplastic left heart syndrome also have an atrial septal defect, which is a hole between the left and right upper chambers (atria) of the heart.

In a baby without a congenital heart defect, the right side of the heart pumps
oxygen-poor blood from the heart to the lungs. The left side of the heart
pumps oxygen-rich blood to the rest of the body. When a baby is growing in a
mother's womb during pregnancy, there are two small openings between the left
and right sides of the heart: the _patent ductus arteriosus_ and the _patent
foramen ovale_. Normally, these openings will close a few days after birth.

In babies with hypoplastic left heart syndrome, the left side of the heart
cannot pump oxygen-rich blood to the body properly. During the first few days
of life for a baby with hypoplastic left heart syndrome, the oxygen-rich blood
bypasses the poorly functioning left side of the heart through the patent
ductus arteriosus and the patent foramen ovale. The right side of the heart
then pumps blood to both the lungs and the rest of the body. However, among
babies with hypoplastic left heart syndrome, when these openings close, it
becomes hard for oxygen-rich blood to get to the rest of the body.

Learn more about how the heart works »

### Occurrence

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) estimates that each year
about 1,025 babies in the United States are born with hypoplastic left heart
syndrome.1 In other words, about 1 out of every 3,841 babies born in the
United States each year is born with hypoplastic left heart syndrome.

Did You Know?

Women can take steps before and during pregnancy to reduce the risk of having
a baby born with birth defects. Such steps include taking a daily multivitamin
with folic acid (400 micrograms), not smoking, and not drinking alcohol during
pregnancy.

Learn more about how to prevent birth defects »

Teagan's Story

![Teagan holding a picture of himself when he was
younger](/ncbddd/birthdefects/stories/images/Teagan-holding-picutre-150px.jpg)

Teagan was born with hypoplastic left heart syndrome. Read his story as well
as other stories from families affected by hypoplastic left heart syndrome »

### Causes and Risk Factors

The causes of heart defects such as hypoplastic left heart syndrome among most
babies are unknown. Some babies have heart defects because of changes in their
_genes_ or _chromosomes_. These types of heart defects also are thought to be
caused by a combination of genes and other risk factors, such as things the
mother comes in contact with in the environment or what the mother eats or
drinks or the medicines the mother uses.

Read more about CDC's work on causes and risk factors »

### Diagnosis

Hypoplastic left heart syndrome may be diagnosed during pregnancy or soon
after the baby is born.

##### During Pregnancy

During pregnancy, there are screening tests (also called prenatal tests,) to
check for birth defects and other conditions. Hypoplastic left heart syndrome
may be diagnosed during pregnancy with an ultrasound, (which creates pictures
of the body). Some findings from the ultrasound may make the health care
provider suspect a baby may have hypoplastic left heart syndrome. If so, the
health care provider can request a fetal _echocardiogram_, an ultrasound of
the baby's heart, to confirm the diagnosis.This test can show problems with
the structure of the heart and how the heart is working with this defect.

##### After the Baby Is Born

Babies with hypoplastic left heart syndrome might not have trouble for the
first few days of life while the patent ductus arteriosus and the patent
foramen ovale (the normal openings in the heart) are open, but quickly develop
signs after these openings are closed, including:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Problems breathing,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Pounding heart,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Weak pulse, or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ashen or bluish skin color.

During a physical examination, a doctor can see these signs or might hear a
heart murmur (an abnormal whooshing sound caused by blood not flowing
properly). If a murmur is heard or other signs are present, the health care
provider might request one or more tests to make a diagnosis, the most common
being an echocardiogram. Echocardiography also is useful for helping the
health care provider follow the child's health over time.

HLHS is a defect that also can be detected with newborn pulse oximetry
screening. Pulse oximetry is a simple bedside test to determine the amount of
oxygen in a baby's blood. Low levels of oxygen in the blood can be a sign of a
CCHD. Newborn screening using pulse oximetry can identify some infants with a
CCHD, like HLHS, before they show any symptoms.

### Treatments

Treatments for some health problems associated with hypoplastic left heart
syndrome might include:

##### Medicines

Some babies and children will need medicines to help strengthen the heart
muscle, lower their blood pressure, and help the body get rid of extra fluid.

##### Nutrition

Some babies with hypoplastic left heart syndrome become tired while feeding
and do not eat enough to gain weight. To make sure babies have a healthy
weight gain, a special high-calorie formula might be prescribed. Some babies
become extremely tired while feeding and might need to be fed through a
_feeding tube_.

##### Surgery

Soon after a baby with hypoplastic left heart syndrome is born, multiple
surgeries done in a particular order are needed to increase blood flow to the
body and bypass the poorly functioning left side of the heart. The right
ventricle becomes the main pumping chamber to the body. These surgeries do not
cure hypoplastic left heart syndrome, but help restore heart function.
Sometimes medicines are given to help treat symptoms of the defect before or
after surgery. Surgery for hypoplastic left heart syndrome usually is done in
three separate stages:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1. **Norwood Procedure**  
This surgery usually is done within the first 2 weeks of a baby's life.
Surgeons create a "new" aorta and connect it to the right ventricle. They also
place a tube from either the aorta or the right ventricle to the vessels
supplying the lungs (pulmonary arteries). Thus, the right ventricle can pump
blood to both the lungs and the rest of the body. This can be a very
challenging surgery. After this procedure, an infant's skin still might look
bluish because oxygen-rich and oxygen-poor blood still mix in the heart.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2. **Bi-directional Glenn Shunt Procedure**  
This usually is performed when an infant is 4 to 6 months of age. This
procedure creates a direct connection between the pulmonary artery and the
vessel (the superior vena cava) returning oxygen-poor blood from the upper
part of the body to the heart. This reduces the work the right ventricle has
to do by allowing blood returning from the body to flow directly to the lungs.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3. **Fontan Procedure**  
This procedure usually is done sometime during the period when an infant is 18
months to 3 years of age. Doctors connect the pulmonary artery and the vessel
(the inferior vena cava) returning oxygen-poor blood from the lower part of
the body to the heart, allowing the rest of the blood coming back from the
body to go to the lungs. Once this procedure is complete, oxygen-rich and
oxygen-poor blood no longer mix in the heart and an infant's skin will no
longer look bluish.

##### Infants who have these surgeries are not cured

Infants with hypoplastic left heart syndrome may have lifelong complications.
They will need regular follow-up visits with a cardiologist (a heart doctor)
to monitor their progress. If the hypoplastic left heart syndrome defect is
very complex, or the heart becomes weak after the surgeries, a heart
transplant may be needed. Infants who receive a heart transplant will need to
take medicines for the rest of their lives to prevent their body from
rejecting the new heart.

### References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1. Mai CT, Isenburg JL, Canfield MA, et al. for the National Birth Defects Prevention Network. National population-based estimates for major birth defects, 2010-2014. Birth Defects Res 2019; 1- 16\. https://doi.org/10.1002/bdr2.1589.

##### Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome

![Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/hlhs-web.jpg)

The images are in the public domain and thus free of any copyright
restrictions. As a matter of courtesy we request that the content provider
(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center on Birth Defects
and Developmental Disabilities) be credited and notified in any public or
private usage of this image.

Close

##### Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome

![Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/HPLH_web.jpg)

The images are in the public domain and thus free of any copyright
restrictions. As a matter of courtesy we request that the content provider
(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center on Birth Defects
and Developmental Disabilities) be credited and notified in any public or
private usage of this image.

Close

Page last reviewed: November 12, 2019

Content source: ï»¿ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Congenital Heart Defects Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * What are CHDsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * How the Heart Works
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Critical Congenital Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Screening
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Current Research Activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Information for Healthcare Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Specific Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Atrial Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Atrioventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Coarctation of the Aorta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * D-Transposition of the Great Arteries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Pulmonary Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Tetralogy of Fallot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Return
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Tricuspid Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Truncus Arteriosus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Ventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Living with a CHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tracking & Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Articles & Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Living with a Heart Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Free Materialsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Tracking and Research Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * CHD Tracking and Research Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 10 Years of Improving Understanding of CHDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Multimedia and Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * A Heart-To-Heart Chat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Real Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Links to Other Resources

Information For…

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policy Makers



**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

