https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/stories/gastroschisis.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/stories/gastroschisis.html    
                Description: Gastroschisis is a birth defect of the abdominal (belly) wall. The babyâs intestines stick outside of the babyâs body, through a hole beside the belly button. To learn what itâs like to live with this condition or how families are affected, read these real stories from people living with gastroschisis.    
                Keywords: CDC,  birth defects,  Gastroschisis,  Living with Gastroschisis,  National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities,  developmental disabilities, Birth Defects    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Birth Defects

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

# Real Stories: Living with Gastroschisis

Minus

Related Pages

Gastroschisis is a birth defect of the abdominal (belly) wall. The baby's
intestines stick outside of the baby's body, through a hole beside the belly
button. To learn what it's like to live with this condition or how families
are affected, read these real stories from people living with gastroschisis.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Anna's Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ashley's Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ashley's Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Avery's Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Genevieve's Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ian's Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Josh's Story

### Anna's Story--Written by her mom, Brooke

![Anna with her dad](/ncbddd/birthdefects/stories/images/Anna-and-
dad-400px.jpg)

**When Brooke went in for an ultrasound to find out the sex of her baby, she
also learned that her baby girl would be born with** **gastroschisis** **.
She shares her daughter Anna's story, about their anticipation of her birth
and immediate treatment, the unknown of what her outcome would be, and also
their joy of finally bringing their daughter home.  Read their story below.**

When I was five months pregnant, my husband (shown in the photo with Anna) and
I went in for our ultrasound. We were about to learn the sex of our little
baby, and our hearts raced in anticipation and excitement as we patiently
waited. Finally, the tech told us, "It's a girl…" I smiled and looked at my
husband for his reaction, which was also an elated smile. "…but it looks as
though she may have some issues." At first glance, she thought it may be an
omphalocele, but she wasn't sure. We were given the name of a local specialist
who would be able to diagnose her defect correctly.

Two weeks later, we met with the specialist. He proceeded to tell us that the
defect was not, in fact, an omphalocele, rather a gastroschisis, put us in
touch with his colleague that specialized in this defect. The new specialist
explained that gastroschisis is a birth defect in which an infant's intestines
stick out of the body on one side of the umbilical cord. She made us feel as
though this was a fairly common condition, and procedures that our baby would
need were fairly simple. It was the recovery time that took the longest.

Eventually we were meeting with the specialist regularly. We also met with the
doctor who would perform her surgery. He gave us a rough estimate of six weeks
to three months before our baby would be well enough to be home with us.

Just as we were coming to terms with the upcoming events, I had a regular
scheduled prenatal visit, and my doctor asked me if I was feeling the
contractions I was having. I replied that I was, but they weren't painful, so
I wasn't too concerned about them. I was put on bed rest at the hospital for
the remainder of my pregnancy. As the long days passed, I received around the
clock care from nurses, interns, on-call doctors, specialists and technicians.
Finally, after about three weeks, our doctor informed me that our baby girl
needed to come out. She scheduled my Caesarean-section exactly 30 days prior
to my due date. We were so nervous and excited at the same time. We'd finally
be able to meet our precious little girl, but we still felt helpless and
unprepared for what would happen after her birth.

In the early afternoon of a February day, Anna was born. The doctor showed her
to us briefly before handing her to the appropriate staff. We were told all of
her large intestine was outside of her body, as well as a fallopian tube. Anna
was bandaged carefully before being wheeled through the hallways of the
hospital and over to the children's medical center. Once there, her intestines
were placed in a protective "silo." This "silo" was supposed to gently push
her intestines back into her abdominal wall with the help of gravity.

After three days, the surgeon informed us that Anna was progressing quickly
and was ready for her final surgery. They'd gently push the remaining
intestines back into her stomach and stitch up her abdomen. Sitting in the
waiting room while Anna was undergoing her surgery will remain to be one of
the most nerve-wracking moments of my life. Luckily, it was over fairly
quickly. Now came the waiting part. We had to see if she could tolerate the
pressure of the intestines in her body, then work on being able to digest
breast milk or formula. It was about a week before they attempted giving her
my pumped breast milk through a bottle. She took to it quickly but would soon
fall asleep or lose interest. Eventually she was eating a decent amount, and
the doctors and nurses were pleasantly surprised with her very rapid progress.
After only 17 days in the NICU, our little Anna was released and sent home
with us. It was as if a great weight had been lifted off our hearts and
shoulders. We no longer had to drive an hour to see her, no longer had to get
updates from nurses, and we were no longer worried about when we'd finally all
get to be together. Our little girl was home!

### Ashley's Story--Written by her mom, Kayte

![Ashley as an infant in the hospital and at her current
age.](/ncbddd/birthdefects/stories/images/Ashley-baby-current-500px.jpg)

**Ashley is a remarkable young girl, who was also born with**
**gastroschisis** **. Her mom, Kayte, shares Ashley 's story and the many
challenges that she has faced. Kayte also shares how Ashley is an inspiration
to countless other families challenged by gastroschisis.**

Ashley was born in 2005 with a condition called gastroschisis, which caused
her intestines to be outside of her body. The beginning of her life was filled
with surgeries and tests, setbacks and worry. She caught an infection in her
central line that nearly killed her, and she needed a special transfusion and
lots of strong antibiotics to keep her alive. It seemed so unfair that such a
tiny person would have to endure so much, but she was a fighter and soon was
able to come home. I will never forget the way she looked at the sky with
silent awe the first day she finally left the neonatal intensive care unit, or
how scary it was at first to have her home without the constant beeping of
machines to monitor her. She has always held a sense of wonder and curiosity
about the world, and Ashley has a resiliency that other kids her age don't
possess.

Seven years and a few more surgeries later, Ashley is doing really well. She
is smaller than other children, which is normal for gastroschisis survivors.
She will always be at risk of intestinal kinks and blockages, which makes
every stomach bug or tummy ache a worry. She is also hearing impaired from an
additional birth defect called microtia. Although her life was initially
filled with challenges, Ashley is blossoming into a remarkable young girl who
has inspired countless other gastroschisis families with her story.

### Ashley's Story--In her own words

![Ashley smiling](/ncbddd/birthdefects/stories/images/Ashley-10-year-
old-400px.jpg)

**Ashley shares her own story of how she is overcoming challenges and
thriving.**

Hi, I'm Ashley. When I was born I had a birth defect called gastroschisis. I
had to have surgery because my intestines were outside of me. I had many
surgeries when I was little, but now I'm pretty healthy, although my stomach
hurts sometimes and I'm kind of tiny - which can be a side effect of having
gastroschisis. Ever since kindergarten I've been teased for being small, and
because my stomach is sensitive sometimes I don't do the things kids dare me
to, and they'll laugh at me for being scared.  But I have a lot of friends who
are nice too!

I also have another birth defect that doesn't let me hear very well, because
my right ear is blocked by skin. I have to wear a hearing aid, but I can't
wear one like other kids do so I wear a BAHA softband. The softband is like a
headband, but it holds my hearing aid. I don't feel comfortable wearing it
anymore, because I don't like the way it feels and it messes up my hair, so in
school, the teachers wear a microphone, and I have a speaker on my desk to
hear them better. Sometimes being hearing impaired bothers me, because I'm shy
and I don't like asking people to speak louder for me. But I can read lips,
unless you have an accent!

I would want other kids to know that despite being small and hearing impaired,
I can do a lot of really great things. I like to practice piano, run track,
play soccer, and I get good grades in school. I have a lot of amazing friends
who have gastroschisis too, and I go to camps where I have friends who use
American Sign Language. They make me feel happy because there are other people
like me and I'm not alone. Having birth defects isn't bad, it just sets me
apart from other people because I persevere and I'm totally awesome!

### Avery's Story--Written by his mom, Meghan

![Avery as an infant](/ncbddd/birthdefects/stories/images/Avery-436px.jpg)

**Meghan learned of her son Avery 's birth defect early in her pregnancy.  She
shares her experience of her son's birth, his short time on earth, and how she
is now an advocate for other families affected by ****gastroschisis** **.
Read her touching story below. **

Avery was born at 6lbs 7oz with gastroschisis. We knew of his defect at 12
weeks into my pregnancy, after a blood test came back with concerning hormone
levels. An ultrasound confirmed that he had exposed bowel. Avery's birth
defect affects one out of 2,229 babies in the United States.

Prepped for the remaining 25 weeks that the condition was treatable, we met
him with rosy expectations. After being wheeled away for surgery immediately
following birth, his intestines were placed back inside his body. He spent 107
days in the hospital and underwent multiple surgeries and procedures to
attempt to get his affected bowel working. Avery spent 13 weeks fully awake
and with a single central line providing his nutritional needs. After a
surgery, he had some unanticipated complications. After more surgeries and
procedures, it was discovered he was 100% brain dead. Surrounded by our loved
ones, we released him to the angels after 107 beautiful days of life.

Fueled by the loneliness following the prognosis at 12 weeks, I began blogging
to seek support from families affected by gastroschisis and to promote
research and awareness. I helped found a support organization for children and
families affected by gastroschisis.

Avery was the greatest joy and hope in my life. I advocate for his life as any
other mother would, and to further that joy and love that he was and is in my
life.

### Genevieve's Story--Written by her mom, Tiffany

![Genevieve wearing a pick
bow](/ncbddd/birthdefects/stories/images/Genevieve-500px.jpg)

**Genevieve was born with** **gastroschisis** **, a birth defect of the
abdominal (belly) wall.  Although she has faced many hardships, her mom,
Tiffany, shares what a strong and beautiful girl she is.  Read her story
below.**

Genevieve is a twin, born early with gastroschisis. She spent three months in
the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) and needed several surgeries and
countless procedures to keep her alive. Unexpectedly, she got a massive
infection in her gut, which destroyed her remaining intestine. It poisoned her
blood and she almost didn't survive. Her birth defect led to problems for many
organs inside of her body, and she's needed several treatments during her life
to be able to thrive on her own. Through this journey, we've learned that
gastroschisis can range from a short stay in the NICU to a lifetime of
complications. Each baby's story is different and there is no way of knowing
that path until you are already on it.

Genevieve has continued to have a few complications due to her birth defect.
She will continue to struggle with things like hydration and nutrition. And,
we will always have to watch her for signs of problems. But, this little girl
doesn't let any of that bother her. She is strong and beautiful and inspiring
to those who know her story.

### Ian's Story - Written by his mom, Jessica

![Ian as an infant and young
child](/ncbddd/birthdefects/stories/images/Ian-500px.jpg)

**Jessica shares the story of her son, Ian, who was born with**
**gastroschisis** **.   Ian has experienced many health difficulties, but he
loves school, his dance club, and his friends.  Despite everything he has been
through, he continues to endure with a smile.  Read more of his special story
below.**

Ian was born at 32 weeks with a condition called gastroschisis, a birth defect
where his intestines stick outside of his body through a hole beside the belly
button. At some point in my pregnancy, the defect in the abdominal wall closed
itself around the intestines outside of his body, killing all the intestines
that were outside. We did not know this during the pregnancy. When he was
born, we found out that he lost ½ of his colon, 2/3 of his small intestine,
the valve between his small and large intestine, and his appendix. I didn't
get to see my son until the next morning and was crushed. During Ian's nine
month stay in the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU), he endured numerous
feeding issues and multiple surgeries to lengthen his bowels, remove
obstructions, and save him from a perforation. It was the scariest time when
we were told that our baby had a 50-50 chance to pull through the next 24
hours (which happened more than one time).

After an intestinal transplant in California, we finally went home on March 3,
2008. But, it was not easy at home. Ian was in and out of the hospital with
infections in his line, the tube that carried nutrients and medicine to his
body, almost every six weeks. We almost lost Ian to one major infection in
September 2008. He got a mutated form of a blood bug called Klebsiella, and he
went into cardiac arrest in the pediatric intensive care unit (PICU). He then
got a clot in his heart, his lungs collapsed with double pneumonia, and his
kidneys went into failure. Everything looked as though we were losing him, but
with a miracle, his blood clot went away overnight and he started to pee hours
before having dialysis. He spent the entire month of September in the PICU,
but when we did come home, everything just started to click. Eventually,
doctors removed his line on December 31, 2008.

Since then, Ian has been receiving a monthly blood transfusion and injections
to help with his severe anemia, which was caused by him having to be on heavy
duty antibiotics for three years. Ian will need to have more intestine removed
this summer to try to stop the bleeding inside. This leaves us very uncertain
of the future. We do not know if Ian will need to go back on a feeding tube or
have his line reinserted after this surgery. Ian currently receives special
services for speech and development because of his long term hospitalizations.
He loves school, his dance club, and his friends. Despite everything he has
been through, he continues to endure with a smile--he is a true Warrior!

### Josh's Story--Written by his mom, Megan

![Josh as a baby and young
boy](/ncbddd/birthdefects/stories/images/Josh-500px.jpg)

**Josh was born with** **gastroschisis** **.   He has experienced some health
issues throughout childhood, but he has also flourished and has a bright
future ahead of him.  Read his story below, shared by his mom, Megan.**

At 18 weeks pregnant, I was told that my baby had gastroschisis, a birth
defect where the baby's intestines stick outside of the baby's body. At 34
weeks into my pregnancy, I was induced into labor, due to worrying
ultrasounds. Joshua was born at 6lbs and 10 ½ oz. Because of his
gastroschisis, he lost 2/3 of his small intestine, a small portion of his
large intestine, and his appendix. Because of this, he was diagnosed with
short-bowel syndrome. He had to have surgery a couple days after birth to
connect parts of his intestine back together, and he has had multiple other
surgeries since then.

Josh has flourished in school, but he has also had some difficulty. As we'd
been warned, he has a weaker immune system. He seems to catch everything that
comes his way. Through this journey, we've learned that every day is
different. One day he'll be doing so great, and the next he will have taken
three steps back.

He's such a strong, sensitive, little boy. I know he has a bright future ahead
of him, and we look forward to every moment. I can only hope that reading his
story can give other parents hope.

Page last reviewed: December 5, 2019

Content source: ï»¿ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Birth Defects Homepage

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * What are Birth Defects?plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Preventing Birth Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 5 Ways to Lower the Risk of Neural Tube Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Specific Birth Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Anophthalmia / Microphthalmia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Anotia / Microtia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cleft Lip / Cleft Palate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Congenital Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Atrial Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Atrioventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Coarctation of the Aorta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * D-Transposition of the Great Arteries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pulmonary Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tetralogy of Fallot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Return
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tricuspid Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Truncus Arteriosus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Ventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Craniosynostosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Diaphragmatic Hernia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Down Syndromeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data and Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Growth Charts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Esophageal Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Gastroschisis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Hypospadias
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Microcephaly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Neural tube defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Anencephaly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Encephalocele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Spina Bifida
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Omphalocele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Upper and Lower Limb Reduction Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Research & Trackingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * MACDP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * State-based Trackingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Arizona
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Colorado
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Florida
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Illinois
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Kentucky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Michigan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Minnesota
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * New Jersey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Oklahoma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Oregon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Puerto Rico
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Rhode Island
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Texas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Utah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * CBDRPplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * NBDPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * BD-STEPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Research Tools and Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Articles & Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Down Syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Healthy Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Folic Acid and Birth Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Pregnant? Donât Smoke!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * World Birth Defects Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Materials & Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Coloring Pages
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Folic Acid and You
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Prevent to Protect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Make a PACT for Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Birth Defects are Common, Costly, and Critical
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Videos & Podcasts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Buttonsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Best for You. Best for Baby.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Prevent to Protect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * PACT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Quiz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * BD Prevention Monthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Social Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Real Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cleft Lip and Palate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Clubfoot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Craniosynostosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Down Syndromeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Meganâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Calebâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Bryton and Fenixâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Keatonâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Markâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Eye Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Fetal Alcohol Syndrome Disorders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Gastroschisis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Coarctation of the Aorta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Hypoplastic left heart syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tetralogy of Fallot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Other types of heart defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Omphalocele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Spina Bifidaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Randi, Karen, & Robert
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nikiaâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Dailyâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Eliâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Elleyâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Katieâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zacharyâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Bethâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Henryâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Reneeâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Clarkâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Anifaâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Share Your Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Information for Healthcare Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Information for Familiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Finding Support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Care Providerâs Role
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Links to Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * About CDCâs Work

![Zika and Pregnancy Button](/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/button-zika-
preg-180px.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

