https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/heartdefects/tapvr.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/heartdefects/tapvr.html    
                Description: Total anomalous pulmonary venous return (TAPVR) is a birth defect of the heart. Learn more.    
                Keywords: CHDs,  congenital heart defects,  total anomalous pulmonary venous return,  TAPVR, Congenital Heart Defects    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Congenital Heart Defects (CHDs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

# Facts about Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Return or TAPVR

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

Total anomalous pulmonary venous return (TAPVR) (pronounced TOHT-l uh-NOM-uh-
luh-s PUHL-muh-ner-ee VEE-nuh-s ri-TURN), or connection (TAPVC) is a birth
defect of the heart in which the veins bringing blood back from the lungs
_pulmonary veins_) don't connect to the left atrium like usual. Instead they
go to the heart by way of an abnormal (anomalous) connection.

![Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Return or
TAPVR](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/TAPV-sm.jpg)

Click here to view a larger image

![Normal Heart](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/normal-heart-sm.jpg)

Click here to view a larger image

### What is Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Return

Total anomalous pulmonary venous return (TAPVR) is a birth defect of the
heart. In a baby with TAPVR, oxygen-rich blood does not return from the lungs
to the left atrium. Instead, the oxygen-rich blood returns to the right side
of the heart. Here, oxygen-rich blood mixes with oxygen-poor blood. This
causes the baby to get less oxygen than is needed to the body. To survive with
this defect, babies with TAPVR usually have a hole between the right atrium
and the left atrium (an atrial septal defect) that allows the mixed blood to
get to the left side of the heart and pumped out to the rest of the body. Some
children can have other heart defects along with TAPVR, aside from the atrial
septal defect. Because a baby with this defect may need surgery or other
procedures soon after birth, TAPVR is considered a critical congenital heart
defect. Congenital means present at birth.

In a related defect, partial anomalous pulmonary venous return (PAPVR), not
all of the veins have an abnormal connection. There are some abnormal
connections, but one or more of the veins return normally to the left atrium.
Therefore, PAPVR is not as critical as TAPVR.

In a baby without a congenital heart defect, the right side of the heart pumps
oxygen-poor blood from the heart to the lungs through the pulmonary artery.
The blood that comes back from the lungs is oxygen-rich, and it moves through
the pulmonary veins to the left atrium. The left side of the heart pumps
oxygen-rich blood to the rest of the body through the aorta.

Learn more about how the heart works »

### Types of TAPVR

There are different types of TAPVR, based on where the pulmonary veins
connect:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Supracardiac- In supracardiac TAPVR, the pulmonary veins come together and form an abnormal connection above the heart to the superior vena cava, which is a main blood vessel that brings oxygen-poor blood from the upper part of the body to the heart. In this type of TAPVR, a mixture of oxygen-poor and oxygen-rich blood returns to the right atrium through the superior vena cava.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Cardiac - In cardiac TAPVR, the pulmonary veins meet behind the heart and connect to the right atrium. The coronary sinus, which is a vein that helps bring oxygen-poor blood from the heart muscle back to the heart, helps connect the pulmonary veins to the right atrium in this type of TAPVR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Infracardiac - In infracardiac TAPVR, the pulmonary veins come together and form abnormal connections below the heart. A mixture of oxygen-poor blood and oxygen-rich blood returns to the right atrium from the veins of the liver and the inferior vena cava, which is the main blood vessel that brings oxygen-poor blood from the lower part of the body to the heart.

### Occurrence

In a 2019 study using data from birth defects tracking systems across the
United States, researchers estimated that each year about 504 babies in the
United States are born with Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Return. In other
words, about 1 in every 7,809 babies born in the United States each year are
born with Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Return.1

### Causes and Risk Factors

The causes of heart defects, such as TAPVR, among most babies are unknown.
Some babies have heart defects because of changes in their _genes_ or
_chromosomes_. Heart defects also are thought to be caused by a combination of
genes and other risk factors, such as the things the mother or fetus come in
contact with in the environment or what the mother eats or drinks or the
medicines she uses.

Read more about CDC's work on causes and risk factors »

### Diagnosis

TAPVR and PAPVR might be diagnosed during pregnancy, but more often these
defects are diagnosed soon after a baby is born.

##### During Pregnancy

During pregnancy, there are screening tests (also called prenatal tests) to
check for birth defects and other conditions. TAPVR might be diagnosed during
pregnancy with an ultrasound (which creates pictures of the body). Some
findings from the ultrasound may make the health care provider suspect a baby
could have TAPVR. If so, the health care provider can request a fetal
_echocardiogram_ to confirm the diagnosis. A fetal echocardiogram is an
ultrasound specifically of the baby's heart and major blood vessels that is
performed during the pregnancy. This test can show problems with the structure
of the heart and how well the heart is working. However, TAPVR defect is not
commonly detected during pregnancy. It is hard for doctors to see the
pulmonary veins on the prenatal screening tests since not much blood goes to
the lungs before the baby is born. It is easier to detect this defect after
birth when the blood is flowing to the lungs and returning to the heart.

##### After a Baby is Born

Symptoms usually occur at birth or very soon afterwards. Infants with TAPVR
can have a bluish looking skin color, called cyanosis, because their blood
doesn't carry enough oxygen. Infants with TAPVR or other conditions causing
cyanosis can have symptoms such as:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Problems breathing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Pounding heart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Weak pulse
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ashen or bluish skin color
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Poor feeding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Extreme sleepiness

Using a stethoscope, a doctor will often hear a heart murmur (an abnormal
"whooshing" sound caused by blood flowing through the atrial septal defect).
However, it is not uncommon for a heart murmur to be absent right at birth.

If a doctor suspects that there might be a problem, the doctor can request one
or more tests to confirm the diagnosis of TAPVR. The most common test is an
echocardiogram. This is an ultrasound of the heart that can show problems with
the structure of the heart, like holes in the walls between the chambers, and
any irregular blood flow. Cardiac catheterization also can confirm the
diagnosis by showing that the blood vessels are abnormally attached. An
electrocardiogram (EKG), which measures the electrical activity of the heart,
chest x-rays, and other medical tests may also be used to make the diagnosis.

TAPVR is a critical congenital heart defect (critical CHD) that also can be
detected with newborn pulse oximetry screening using pulse oximetry (also
known as pulse ox). Pulse oximetry is a simple bedside test to determine the
amount of oxygen in a baby's blood. Low levels of oxygen in the blood can be a
sign of a CCHD. Newborn screening using pulse oximetry can identify some
infants with a CCHD, like TAPVR, before they show any symptoms.

### Treatment

Babies with TAPVR will need surgery to repair the defect. The age at which the
surgery is done depends on how sick the child is and the specific structure of
the abnormal connections between the pulmonary veins and the right atrium. The
goal of the surgical repair of TAPVR is to restore normal blood flow through
the heart. To repair this defect, doctors usually connect the pulmonary veins
to the left atrium, close off any abnormal connections between blood vessels,
and close the atrial septal defect.

Infants whose defects are surgically repaired are not cured; they may have
lifelong complications. A child or adult with TAPVR will need regular follow-
up visits with a cardiologist (a heart doctor) to monitor their progress,
avoid complications, and check for other health conditions that might develop
as they get older.

### Reference

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1. Mai CT, Isenburg JL, Canfield MA, et al. for the National Birth Defects Prevention Network. National population-based estimates for major birth defects, 2010-2014. Birth Defects Res 2019; 1- 16\. https://doi.org/10.1002/bdr2.1589.

##### Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Return

![Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous
Return](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/tapv-575px.jpg)

The images are in the public domain and thus free of any copyright
restrictions. As a matter of courtesy we request that the content provider
(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center on Birth Defects
and Developmental Disabilities) be credited and notified in any public or
private usage of this image.

Close

##### Normal Heart

![Normal Heart](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/normal-heart-550px.jpg)

The images are in the public domain and thus free of any copyright
restrictions. As a matter of courtesy we request that the content provider
(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center on Birth Defects
and Developmental Disabilities) be credited and notified in any public or
private usage of this image.

Close

Page last reviewed: November 12, 2019

Content source: ï»¿ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Congenital Heart Defects Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * What are CHDsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * How the Heart Works
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Critical Congenital Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Screening
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Current Research Activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Information for Healthcare Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Specific Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Atrial Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Atrioventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Coarctation of the Aorta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * D-Transposition of the Great Arteries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Pulmonary Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Tetralogy of Fallot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Return
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Tricuspid Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Truncus Arteriosus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Ventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Living with a CHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tracking & Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Articles & Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Living with a Heart Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Free Materialsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Tracking and Research Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * CHD Tracking and Research Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 10 Years of Improving Understanding of CHDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Multimedia and Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * A Heart-To-Heart Chat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Real Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Links to Other Resources

Information For…

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policy Makers



**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

