https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/Link: https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/    
                Description: The Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) Series is prepared by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).    
                Keywords: MMWR, Morbidity and Mortality, CDC, Centers for Disease Control, weekly report, surveillance, recommendations, the Voice of CDC, Morbidity &amp; Mortality Weekly Report    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report ( _MMWR_ )

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email
                      * Syndicate

# Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report ( _MMWR_ )

Minus

Related Pages

![The figure is a photograph of the CDC Emergency Operations Center with text
about a new report from MMWR on Coronavirus Disease 2019
\(COVID-19\).](/mmwr/images/banner/mm6909e1_COVID-19ActiveMonitoring_IMAGE_03Mar20_1330x370.jpg)

### **COVID-19 Reports**

* * *

                      * Coronavirus Disease 2019 in Children -- United States, February 12-April 2, 2020
                      * Detection of SARS-CoV-2 Among Residents and Staff Members of an Independent and Assisted Living Community for Older Adults -- Seattle, Washington, 2020
                      * Rapid Sentinel Surveillance for COVID-19 -- Santa Clara County, California, March 2020

More>

![The figure is a photo of a parent and child chatting with someone via webcam
with text about a new report from MMWR describing that social distancing is
important to reduce the spread of COVID-19.](/mmwr/volumes/69/wr/social-
media/mm6914e4_PediatricCOVID-19_IMAGE_06April20_1200x675.jpg)

book icon

All Reports

idea icon

For Authors

badge icon

Continuing Education

email icon

Subscribe

![The figure is a photo of an active duty service member consulting with a
health care provider in an office.](/mmwr/volumes/69/wr/social-
media/mm6913a2_ARTAmongServiceMembers_IMAGE_03April20_1200x675.jpg)

### **Current Weekly**

* * *

                      * Lifetime Prevalence of Self-Reported Work-Related Health Problems Among U.S. Workers -- United States, 2018
                      * Antiretroviral Therapy and Viral Suppression Among Active Duty Service Members with Incident HIV Infection -- United States, January 2012-June 2018
                      * Nonfatal Drug Overdoses Treated in Emergency Departments -- United States, 2016-2017

More>

### **Surveillance Summaries**

* * *

March 27, 2020  
Prevalence of Autism Spectrum Disorder Among Children Aged 8 Years -- Autism
and Developmental Disabilities Monitoring Network, 11 Sites, United States,
2016  
Report findings indicate that there continue to be many children living with
autism who need services and support, now and as they grow into adolescence
and adulthood. Screening and awareness continue to identify children who will
benefit from services.

More>

![The figure is an infographic stating that 1 in 54 8-year-old children were
identified with autism based on data collected in
2016.](/mmwr/volumes/69/ss/social-
media/ss6904a1_AutismAmongChildrenAged8Years_IMAGE_27March20_1200x675.jpg)

![The figure shows an infographic about Latent TB Infection \(LTBI\)
Guidelines and recommended treatment regimens for
LTBI.](/mmwr/volumes/69/rr/social-
media/rr6901a1_LTBITreatment_IMAGE_14Feb20_1200x627-large.jpg)

### **Recommendations and Reports**

* * *

February 14, 2020  
Guidelines for the Treatment of Latent Tuberculosis Infection: Recommendations
from the National Tuberculosis Controllers Association and CDC, 2020  
The recommended treatment regimens include three preferred and two alternative
treatment regimens.

More>

people icon

About _MMWR_

chart icon

 _MMWR_ Metrics

search icon

Additional Resources

map solid icon

 _MMWR_ Visual Abstracts

Page last reviewed: April 6, 2020

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home _MMWR_

                      * Early Release
                      * Publicationsplus icon
                        * Weekly Reportplus icon
                          * Past Volumes (1982-2019)
                        * Recommendations and Reportsplus icon
                          * Past Volumes (1990-2019)
                        * Surveillance Summariesplus icon
                          * Past Volumes (1983-2019)
                        * Supplementsplus icon
                          * Past Volumes (1985-2015)
                        * Notifiable Infectious Diseases
                        * Notifiable Noninfectious Conditions
                      * For Authors
                      * About Â _MMWR_ plus icon
                        * Staff
                        * Editorial Board
                      * Subscriptionsplus icon
                        * _MMWR_ Paper Subscription
                      * Free Continuing Education
                      * Additional Â _MMWR_ Â Resources
                      * Visual Abstracts
                      * Contact Us

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                      * About CDC
                      * Jobs
                      * Funding
                      * Policies
                      * File Viewers & Players

                      * Privacy
                      * FOIA
                      * No Fear Act
                      * OIG
                      * Nondiscrimination
                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * Youtube
                      * Instagram
  

                      * Syndicate
                      * CDC TV
                      * RSS
                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

