https://www.cdc.gov/Learning/Link: https://www.cdc.gov/Learning/    
                Description: Connect to information about public health training opportunities developed by CDC, CDC partners, and other federal agencies.    
                Keywords: CDC training,  CDC education,  CDC learning,  CDC continuing education,  CDC CE,  health training,  health education,  health learning,  health continuing education,  health CE,  public health training,  public health education,  public health learning,  public health continuing education,  public health CE,  health professional training,  health professional education,  health professional learning,  health professional continuing education,  health professional CE,  healthcare training,  healthcare education,  healthcare learning,  healthcare continuing education,  healthcare CE,  health care training,  health care education,  health care learning,  health care continuing education,  health care CE,  CDC fellowships,  CDC internships,  public health fellowships,  public health internships,  health fellowships,  health internships,  healthcare fellowships,  healthcare internships,  health care fellowships,  health care internships,  post-docs,  EIS,  Epidemic Intelligence Service,  laboratory,  infectious disease training,  e-learning,  e-learning design,  e-learning essentials,  CDC TRAIN,  TRAIN,  featured training,  learning connection,  CDC learning connection,  training resources,  quick-learn lessons,  mobile lessons,  training email updates,  education newsletter,  professional development,  public health,  health professionals,  healthcare,  health, Education &amp; Training, CDC Learning Connection    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

CDC Learning Connection

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email
                      * Syndicate

# CDC Learning Connection | CDC

Minus

Related Pages

![CDC Learning Connection: Connect. Learn. Improve
health.](/learning/images/cdc-learning-connection-design-element.png)

Learn about our program and how we select featured trainings.

![Applying CDC’s Guideline for Prescribing Opioids](/learning/images/opioid-
training-series.png)

Take CDC's opioid training series and earn free CE.

Hot Training Topic: COVID-19

Find trainings related to COVID-19 on TRAINexternal icon.  
**Note:** Links to non-CDC courses do not constitute an endorsement by CDC.
Only courses offered by CDC Course Providers have been verified and approved
by CDC.

Please visit the CDC COVID-19 website for the most up-to-date information and
guidance.

CDC Learning Connection helps public health and healthcare professionals stay
informed about quality trainings from CDC, other federal agencies, and
federally funded partners. Each month, we feature trainings on this website
and promote them via a newsletter, social media, and partner outreach.

## April's Featured Trainings

![Laboratory superhero next to a biological safety
cabinet](/learning/images/biological-safety-cabinet-training.png)

Work Safely in the Lab

Learn how to work safely inside a biological safety cabinet and handle an
emergency. **Free CE.**

![Hands under a water tap](/learning/images/wash-training.png)

Improve Global WASH

Learn how to support global water, sanitation, and hygiene (WASH) practices
and prevent disease.

External Link Icon

![Streptococcus pneumoniae bacteria](/learning/images/pneumococcal-
vaccination-training.png)

Prevent Pneumo Disease

Learn how to prevent pneumococcal disease though vaccination. **Free CE.**

External Link Icon

![CDC TRAIN, CDC’s online learning system](/learning/images/cdc-train.jpg)

Find More Courses

Looking for training on other topics? Access thousands of public health
courses via CDC TRAIN.

External Link Icon

## More from the CDC Learning Connection

book icon

About CDC Learning Connection

Learn how CDC LC connects you to public health training.

people icon

CDC Fellowships

Locate public health training internships and fellowships.

clothes icon

Continuing Education

Locate CDC's accredited courses and earn continuing education.

tools icon

Education & Training Development

Access resources to help you design and develop quality training.

device icon

Quick-Learn Lessons

Increase your public health skills with these short courses.

External Link Icon

device icon

Training Resources

Access websites that offer public health learning opportunities.

email_03Get Email Updates

Enter your email address to get updates on quality training.

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Page last reviewed: April 1, 2020

Content source: Deputy Director for Public Health Science and Surveillance,
Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology, and Laboratory Services, Division of
Scientific Education and Professional Development

home CDC Learning Connection

                      * About CDC Learning Connection
                      * Training Resources

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                      * About CDC
                      * Jobs
                      * Funding
                      * Policies
                      * File Viewers & Players

                      * Privacy
                      * FOIA
                      * No Fear Act
                      * OIG
                      * Nondiscrimination
                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * Youtube
                      * Instagram
  

                      * Syndicate
                      * CDC TV
                      * RSS
                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

