https://www.cdc.gov/obesity/adult/causes.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/obesity/adult/causes.html    
                Description: Obesity is a serious concern because it is associated with poorer mental health outcomes, reduced quality of life, and the leading causes of death in the U.S. Learn more...    
                Keywords: causes of obesity,  what causes obesity,  obesity causes,  obesity risk factors,  obesity related diseases,  causes of obesity in america,  risk factors for obesity,  obesity,  obese,  overweight,  weight,  childhood,  children,  child,  fat,  body fat,  trends,  factors,  consequences,  rates,  data,  statistics,  surveillance,  childhood obesity,  child obesity,  obesity in children,  obesity statistics,  teen obesity,  obesity in teens,  definition of obesity,  obesity rates, Obesity and Overweight    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Overweight & Obesity

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

# Adult Obesity Causes & Consequences

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Behavior
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Community Environment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Genetics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Other Factor: Diseases and Drugs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Consequences of Obesity

Obesity is a complex health issue to address. Obesity results from a
combination of causes and contributing factors, including individual factors
such as behavior and genetics. Behaviors can include dietary patterns,
physical activity, inactivity, medication use, and other exposures. Additional
contributing factors in our society include the food and physical activity
environment, education and skills, and food marketing and promotion.

Obesity is a serious concern because it is associated with poorer mental
health outcomes, reduced quality of life, and the leading causes of death in
the U.S. and worldwide, including diabetes, heart disease, stroke, and some
types of cancer.

### Behavior

Healthy behaviors include a healthy diet pattern and regular physical
activity. Energy balance of the number of calories consumed from foods and
beverages with the number of calories the body uses for activity plays a role
in preventing excess weight gain.1,2 A healthy diet pattern follows the
Dietary Guidelines for Americansexternal icon which emphasizes eating whole
grains, fruits, vegetables, lean protein, low-fat and fat-free dairy products
and drinking water. The Physical Activity Guidelines for Americansexternal
icon recommends adults do at least 150 minutes of moderate intensity activity
or 75 minutes of vigorous intensity activity, or a combination of both, along
with 2 days of strength training per week.

Having a healthy diet pattern and regular physical activity is also important
for long term health benefits and prevention of chronic diseases such as Type
2 diabetes and heart disease.

For more, see Healthy Weight - Finding a Balance.

Top of Page

### Community Environment

People and families may make decisions based on their environment or
community. For example, a person may choose not to walk or bike to the store
or to work because of a lack of sidewalks or safe bike trails. Community,
home, child care, school, health care, and workplace settings can all
influence people's daily behaviors. Therefore, it is important to create
environments in these locations that make it easier to engage in physical
activity and eat a healthy diet.

Watch The Obesity Epidemicexternal icon to learn about the many community
environmental factors that have contributed to the obesity epidemic, as well
as several community initiatives taking place to prevent and reduce obesity.

Learn about strategies to improve the environment to make it easier to be
physically active.

Strategies to create a healthy environment are listed on the Strategies to
Prevent Obesity page. More specifically, strategies to create a healthy school
environment are listed on the CDC Adolescent and School Health website.

Top of Page

### Genetics

#### Do Genes Have a Role in Obesity?

Genetic changes in human populations occur too slowly to be responsible for
the obesity epidemic. Nevertheless, the variation in how people respond to the
environment that promotes physical inactivity and intake of high-calorie foods
suggests that genes do play a role in the development of obesity.

#### How Could Genes Influence Obesity?

Genes give the body instructions for responding to changes in its environment.
Studies have identified variants in several genes that may contribute to
obesity by increasing hunger and food intake.

Rarely, a clear pattern of inherited obesity within a family is caused by a
specific variant of a single gene (monogenic obesity). Most obesity, however,
probably results from complex interactions among multiple genes and
environmental factors that remain poorly understood (multifactorial
obesity).3,4

Top of Page

#### What about Family History?

Health care practitioners routinely collect family health history to help
identify people at high risk of obesity-related diseases such as diabetes,
cardiovascular diseases, and some forms of cancer. Family health history
reflects the effects of shared genetics and environment among close relatives.
Families can't change their genes but they can change the family environment
to encourage healthy eating habits and physical activity. Those changes can
improve the health of family members--and improve the family health history of
the next generation.3,4

Learn more about genetics and obesity here: Obesity and Genomics.

### Other Factors: Diseases and Drugs

Some illnesses may lead to obesity or weight gain. These may include Cushing's
disease, and polycystic ovary syndrome. Drugs such as steroids and some
antidepressants may also cause weight gain. The science continues to emerge on
the role of other factors in energy balance and weight gain such as chemical
exposures and the role of the microbiome.

A health care provider can help you learn more about your health habits and
history in order to tell you whether behaviors, illnesses, medications, and/or
psychological factors are contributing to weight gain or making weight loss
hard.

Top of Page

### Consequences of Obesity

#### Health Consequences

People who have obesity, compared to those with a normal or healthy weight,
are at increased risk for many serious diseases and health conditions,
including the following:5,6,7

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * All-causes of death (mortality)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * High blood pressure (Hypertension)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * High LDL cholesterol, low HDL cholesterol, or high levels of triglycerides (Dyslipidemia)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Type 2 diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Coronary heart disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Stroke
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Gallbladder disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Osteoarthritis (a breakdown of cartilage and bone within a joint)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sleep apnea and breathing problems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Many types of cancersexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Low quality of life
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Mental illness such as clinical depression, anxiety, and other mental disorders8,9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Body pain and difficulty with physical functioning10

For more information about these and other health problems associated with
obesity, visit Health Effects of Obesity.

For more information about these and other health problems associated with
overweight and obesity, visit Clinical Guidelines on the Identification,
Evaluation, and Treatment of Overweight and Obesity in Adults pdf icon[PDF
56KB]external icon.

Top of Page

#### Economic and Societal Consequences

Obesity and its associated health problems have a significant economic impact
on the U.S. health care system.11 Medical costs associated with overweight and
obesity may involve direct and indirect costs.12,13 Direct medical costs may
include preventive, diagnostic, and treatment services related to obesity.
Indirect costs relate to morbidity and mortality costs including productivity.
Productivity measures include 'absenteeism' (costs due to employees being
absent from work for obesity-related health reasons) and 'presenteeism'
(decreased productivity of employees while at work) as well as premature
mortality and disability. 14

#### National Estimated Costs of Obesity

The medical care costs of obesity in the United States are high. In 2008
dollars, these costs were estimated to be $147 billion.15

The annual nationwide productive costs of obesity obesity-related absenteeism
range between $3.38 billion ($79 per obese individual) and $6.38 billion ($132
per individual with obesity)16.

In addition to these costs, data shows implications of obesity on recruitment
by the armed forces. An assessment was performed of the percentage of the US
military-age population that exceeds the US Army's current active duty
enlistment standards for weight-for-height and percent body fat, using data
from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys. In 2007-2008, 5.7
million men and 16.5 million women who were eligible for military service
exceeded the Army's enlistment standards for weight and body fat.17

Top of Page

References

1DHHS, AIM for a Healthy Weight, page 5. Available online pdf
icon[PDF-2.17MB]external icon

2Hall KD, Sacks G, Chandramohan D, Chow CC, Wang YC, Gortmaker SL, Swinburn
BA.Lancet. 2011 Aug 27;378(9793):826-37.external icon

3Bouchard C. Defining the genetic architecture of the predisposition to
obesity: a challenging but not insurmountable taskexternal icon. _Am J Clin
Nutr_ 2010; 91:5-6.

4Choquet H, Meyre D. Genetics of obesity: what have we learned?external icon
_Curr Genomics_. 2011;12:169-79.

5NHLBI. 2013. Managing Overweight and Obesity in Adults: Systematic Evidence
Review from the Obesity Expert Panel. pdf icon[PDF - 5.89MB]external icon

6Clinical Guidelines on the Identification, Evaluation, and Treatment of
Overweight and Obesity in Adults. pdf icon[PDF - 2MB]external icon

7Bhaskaran K, Douglas I, Forbes H, dos-Santos-Silva I, Leon DA, Smeeth L.
Body-mass

index and risk of 22 specific cancers: a population-based cohort study of 5•24
million UK adults. Lancet. 2014 Aug 30;384(9945):755-65. doi:
10.1016/S0140-6736(14)60892-8. Epub 2014 Aug 13.

8Kasen, Stephanie, et al. "Obesity and psychopathology in women: a three
decade prospective study." _International Journal of Obesity_ 32.3 (2008):
558-566.

9Luppino, Floriana S., et al. "Overweight, obesity, and depression: a
systematic review and meta-analysis of longitudinal studies." _Archives of
general psychiatry_ 67.3 (2010): 220-229.

10Roberts, Robert E., et al. "Prospective association between obesity and
depression: evidence from the Alameda County Study." _International journal of
obesity_ 27.4 (2003): 514-521.

11U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The Surgeon General's call to
action to prevent and decrease overweight and obesity. [Rockville, MD]: U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service, Office of the
Surgeon General; [2001]. Available from: US GPO, Washington.

12Wolf AM, Colditz GA. Current estimates of the economic cost of obesity in
the United States. _Obesity Research_.1998;6(2):97-106.

13Wolf, A. What is the economic case for treating obesity? _Obesity Research_.
1998 Apr;6 Suppl 1:2S-7S.

14Hammond RA, Levine R. The economic impact of obesity in the United States.
_Diabetes, metabolic syndrome and obesity : targets and therapy_.
2010;3:285-295. doi:10.2147/DMSOTT.S7384.

15Finkelstein EA1, Trogdon JG, Cohen JW, Dietz W. Annual medical spending
attributable to obesity: payer-and service-specific estimates. Health Aff
(Millwood). 2009 Sep-Oct;28(5):w822-31. doi: 10.1377/hlthaff.28.5.w822.

16Trogdon JG, Finkelstein EA, Hylands T, Dellea PS, Kamal-Bahl. Indirect costs
of obesity: a review of the current literature. _Obes Rev_.2008;9(5):489-500.

17Cawley J., Maclean J.C. , "Unfit for Service: The Implications of Rising
Obesity for U.S. Military Recruitment," _Health Economics_ 21, no. 11 (2012):
1348-66.

Page last reviewed: February 4, 2020

Content source: Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity,
National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion

home Overweight & Obesity

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About Usplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Why It Matters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * What CDC Is Doing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Making A Difference
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Strategies to Prevent & Manage Obesityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Community Efforts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Early Care and Education (ECE)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Prior Funded Projects (ECE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Salad Bars to School
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Healthy Food Service Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Healthy Food Environments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Healthy Hospitalsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Healthy Hospital Practice to Practice Series (P2P)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Healthy Hospital Tool Kit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Healthcareplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Childhood Obesity Research Demonstration (CORD) 1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Childhood Obesity Research Demonstration (CORD) 2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Childhood Obesity Research Demonstration (CORD) 3.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Childhood Obesity Data Initiative (CODI)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Childhood Obesity Data Initiative: Technical Information Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Childhood Obesity Management with MEND Implementation Teams (COMMIT!)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Adult Overweight and Obesityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Defining Adult Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Adult Obesity Causes & Consequences
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Childrenplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Defining Childhood Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Childhood Obesity Causes & Consequences
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Adult Obesity Facts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Childhood Obesity Facts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Obesity Among WIC-Enrolled Young Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Data, Trends and Mapsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Adult Obesity Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Surveillance Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Resources & Publicationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Prevention Strategies & Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Fact Sheets

email_03Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this topic, enter your email address.

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity

![DNPAO logo](/nccdphp/dnpao/images/home/dnpao-links-logo_187px.png)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nutrition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Physical Activity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Overweight & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Healthy Weight
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Breastfeeding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Micronutrient Malnutrition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * State and Local Programs

Related Topics

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nutrition

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

